Component Pricing with a Bundle Size Discount
Ningyuan Chen
Department of Management, University of Toronto Mississauga,
Rotman School of Management, University of Toronto, Canada, ningyuan.chen@utoronto.ca
Xiaobo Li
Department of Industrial Systems Engineering and Management, National University of Singapore, iselix@nus.edu.sg
Zechao Li
School of Economics and Management, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, lizechao19@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn
Chun Wang
School of Economics and Management, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, wangchun@sem.tsinghua.edu.cn
Firms selling multiple products usually adopt bundle pricing in their marketing strategy for the purpose of
extracting large consumer surplus. In this paper, we propose and analyze a bundling mechanism, referred to
as component pricing with a bundle size discount (CPBSD), which sells bundles for the summed prices of the
included products (component pricing) minus a discount based on the number of products purchased (bundle
size discount). CPBSD is conceptually simple and has been widely used in real-world business settings.
Theoretically, we show that CPBSD subsumes several well-studied bundling mechanisms as special cases.
Moreover, we find instances in which CPBSD can generate infinitely more profits than the best of other
common mechanisms as the number of products increases. We further prove that, under a general condition,
CPBSD attains the optimal profit asymptotically for a large number of products among all bundle pricing
mechanisms. From a practical perspective, we formulate a mixed-integer linear program for the optimal
pricing scheme of CPBSD, and we also develop an approximation algorithm for efficiently solving CPBSD in
large-scale problems. Through comprehensive numerical experiments, we show thatCPBSD achieves superior
performance in contrast to other bundling mechanisms. In particular, compared to bundle size pricing whose
outstanding empirical performance has been extensively tested in the literature, CPBSD performs especially
well when products are heterogeneous and the production costs are high. Furthermore, the outstanding
performance of CPBSD is most pronounced when the potential surplus provided by products are negatively
correlated with the product valuations. We also show that our approximation algorithm may achieve a
performance that is very close to the optimal CPBSD. Given the theoretical guarantee and the computational
efficiency, CPBSD presents an appealing selling mechanism for retailers to improve their profitability.
Key words : bundle pricing, asymptotic analysis, mixed-integer programming
1. Introduction
Product bundling is a prevalent marketing strategy for multiproduct firms. It is well known that,
by employing this strategy, a firm can generate more profits by offering subsets of products priced
as bundles rather than selling them separately. Theoretically, a firm with N products could set
a separate price for each of the 2 N possible bundles (including the non-purchase option), which
1

2
is known as mixed bundling ( MB). However, given the exponential growth in N, MB quickly
becomes computationally intractable as well as cognitively overwhelming for consumers who have
to understand an astronomically large set of prices and bundles.
Owing to the fundamental complexity of MB, the academic literature has focused on simpler
bundling mechanisms. The three most notable ones include the following (see Chu et al. 2011).
• Component pricing ( CP), which sets prices of products separately. Customers can purchase
any number of products and pay the sum of their individual prices. (Whereas CP is not
technically a bundling strategy, for analytical convenience, we discuss it among the other
bundling mechanisms.)
• Pure bundling (PB), which bundles all products together. Customers either purchase all prod-
ucts by paying a price for the whole bundle or leave without purchasing anything.
• Bundle size pricing ( BSP), which prices a bundle of products by the number of products in
the bundle, regardless of the individual products that constitute the bundle. For example, a
firm may set a price of $10 for a bundle of any three products and a price of $12 for a bundle
of any four products.
Compared to MB, these three simple mechanisms are easier to compute and more convenient to
implement in practice. Examining these mechanisms theoretically, Babaioff et al. (2014) prove that
combining CP and PB can attain at least 1/6 of the optimal revenue. Using numerical simulations,
Chu et al. (2011) provide empirical evidence that BSP tends to approximate the optimal profit
from MB in a wide range of cases.
Despite their advantages, CP, PB, and BSP each have shortcomings that impede their broader
use in business. Specifically, CP offers no discount for bundled products and thus cannot reap the
benefit from bundling; PB gives customers no leeway for purchasing a subset of the products and
hence falls short when customers have budgetary constraints; and BSP ignores the heterogeneity
across products and may thus lead to unintended customer behaviors when products are vertically
differentiated. Given these respective shortcomings, we are interested in whether there exists a
bundling mechanism that preserves the benign properties of these simple mechanisms and in the
meanwhile addresses their practical limitations.
In this paper, we provide an affirmative answer to this question by proposing a bundling mecha-
nism referred to as component pricing with a bundle size discount ( CPBSD). Similar to CP, it first
sets a component price for each product. After a customer selects a bundle of products, CPBSD
offers a discount off the sum of the individual prices, in the form of cashback or gift, based on the
number of products purchased.
By striking a balance between simplicity and flexibility, CPBSD presents the following benefits
to a firm. Firstly, CPBSD is conceptually simple and hence easily understood by customers. (See

3
Section 3, which shows that the number of policy parameters under CPBSD is only twice that of
either CP or BSP, and much smaller than that of MB.) More importantly, CPBSD integrates the
benefits of both separate product pricing and bundling, and thereby resolves the practical limi-
tations of the three simple mechanisms mentioned earlier. Specifically, it improves CP by offering
a discount for bundled products; it allows customers to purchase a smaller fraction of products
relative to PB; and it accounts for the product heterogeneity by tuning the individual prices of
products in contrast to BSP. These advantages make CPBSD gain increasing attention from prac-
titioners. Though not studied in the academic literature, CPBSD and its variants have been widely
used in real-world business. Here are some applications from various industries.
• Retailing: Figure 1 presents a coupon from H-E-B, one of the biggest supermarket chains in
the United States. The coupon applies to more than one hundred different products under
consideration, each with an individual price. If a customer chooses five items in the offered
set, a $5 cashback discount will be applied.
Figure 1 H-E-B coupon: $5 off for purchasing a bundle of any 5 products
• Ride sharing: it is a common strategy for ride-sharing companies to offer a discount for a
certain number of rides. See Figure 2 for an example from Uber. For instance, if a customer
signs up with the code “NEWRIDER25”, when completing 10 rides (each ride has been
charged individually), she will receive a cashback of $25.
Figure 2 Uber offers different discounts for different numbers of rides

4
• Food service: some restaurants implement a card-based incentive program. For example, Nine
Fresh Desserts ( https://ninefresh.com/) is a local brand in Singapore that specializes in
Taiwanese desserts and operates multiple chain stores. Each customer may get a reward card
as shown in Figure 3. Every time a customer purchases a dessert by paying its individual
price at any Nine Fresh store, a stamp is collected on the reward card. When the first set of
6 stamps is collected, a gift of $3 can be redeemed. After that, more gifts of $3.5 and $3.9
are offered for the second and third sets of 6 stamps, respectively. This incentive program can
be viewed as CPBSD that offers a discount of $3 for a size-6 bundle, a discount of $6.5 for a
size-12 bundle, and a discount of $10.4 for a size-18 bundle.
Figure 3 Nine Fresh reward card: redeem a free dessert/drink for every 6 stamps
Beyond proposing CPBSD, our study makes the following contribution to the literature. First,
from a theoretical perspective, we analyze and demonstrate the superior profitability of CPBSD.
We show that CPBSD subsumes CP, PB, BSP, and several other well-studied bundling mechanisms
as special cases (Proposition 1). As a result, it inherits all the theoretical guarantees across these
mechanisms. For example, CPBSD attains at least 1/5.2 of the optimal revenue earned by the best
selling mechanism (Corollary 1). We also find instances whereCPBSD can generate infinitely higher
profits than other common mechanisms (Proposition 2). Moreover, by analyzing the bundling prob-
lem for a large number of products, we show that CPBSD is asymptotically optimal in extracting
all customers’ surplus even in the presence of heterogeneous production costs (Theorems 1 and 2).
Second, our study provides insights into the practicality of CPBSD. Specifically, when using
sampled customer valuations following the literature, we can formulate the optimal pricing scheme
of CPBSD as a mixed-integer linear program (MILP). Hence, we provide an accessible framework
for modern optimization solvers such as Gurobi that can solve an MILP but not a general integer
programming problem.

5
Finally, through comprehensive numerical experiments, we show thatCPBSD demonstrates supe-
rior profit performance relative to other bundling mechanisms. In particular, CPBSD is highly
effective on heterogeneous products with high production costs. In terms of both in-sample and out-
of-sample tests, CPBSD outperforms BSP, which has a superb, well-documented empirical profit
performance (e.g., Chu et al. 2011). The superb performance of CPBSD is most pronounced when
the potential surplus are negatively correlated with the valuations across products.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we review the related literature.
In Section 3, we describe the model setup. In Section 4, we provide an asymptotic analysis for
the performance of CPBSD when the number of products is large. In Section 5, we formulate the
optimal pricing scheme of CPBSD as an MILP, and develop an approximation algorithm for large-
scale problems. In Section 6, we conduct numerical experiments to compare the profit performance
of CPBSD with that of other bundling mechanisms. Section 7 presents our conclusion. The detailed
proofs are included in the online appendix.
2. Literature Review
The study on the benefits of bundling dates back to Stigler (1963), who shows by example that
a firm with two products can earn a higher profit by using PB rather than CP. Due to the high
complexity of the bundling problem, the literature has mainly focused on the two-product setting
for a long time. For example, Adams and Yellen (1976), Schmalensee (1984), and McAfee et al.
(1989) reveal the profitability of bundling mechanism ( MB or PB) for two products. In a subse-
quent research, Bhargava (2013) derive analytic and approximation pricing solutions for MB when
the valuations of the two products are independent and have uniform distributions. We refer to
Venkatesh and Mahajan (2009) for an extensive review of this stream of literature.
In recent years, researchers have successfully extended the bundling study beyond the two-
product setting, and there are primarily two streams of bundling literature. The first stream focuses
on the theoretical properties of bundling mechanisms. Within this stream of literature, Bakos and
Brynjolfsson (1999) show that PB can approximate the optimal MB revenue when the number of
products is large, the production costs are zero, and the customer valuations are independent and
additive. Later, Abdallah (2019) revisits the large-scale bundling problem with positive production
costs and provides a lower bound on the profit loss from using PB. Examining the effect of context
on PB and CP performance, Fang and Norman (2006) and Ibragimov and Walden (2010) discuss
the conditions under which one mechanism is more profitable than the other. In addition, there are
a number of papers investigating the performance bound of CP and PB relative to the optimal MB
profit, including Li and Yao (2013), Babaioff et al. (2014), Hart and Nisan (2017), and Cai et al.
(2019). Regarding BSP, Hitt and Chen (2005) find that it can outperform CP and PB in certain

6
situations. Gallego and Berbeglia (2023) examine the theoretical performance of nonpersonalized
multiproduct pricing heuristics against personalized pricing with applications to various demand
models. More recently, Abdallah et al. (2021) provide a framework to analyze the asymptotic per-
formance of BSP for a large number of products. They show that BSP can yield an asymptotically
optimal profit when products have equal costs, however, BSP becomes inefficient when products
have different costs.
The second stream of bundling literature focuses on computational approaches for different
bundling mechanisms. Given samples of customer valuations, Hanson and Martin (1990) solves the
optimal prices for MB using an MILP formulation that explicitly formulates each possible bundle.
However, this computation of MB remains intractable for even a moderate number of products
due to the sheer number of decision variables (recall that MB offers 2 N bundles). By contrast,
Venkatesh and Mahajaim (1993) develop a probabilistic approach to calculate the optimal prices for
CP and PB, while it is not immediately clear how their approach can be extended to more general
bundling problems. Wu et al. (2008) formulate BSP in a mixed-integer nonlinear program, and
obtain an upper bound based on Lagrangian multiplier. To make the nonlinear formulation more
computationally feasible, they provide a heuristic that approximately solves BSP for 100 products
and 100 customers. Later, Chu et al. (2011) propose a simulation-optimization algorithm to solve
general bundle pricing problems. By approximating customers’ choices as continuous variables,
they are able to use standard continuous optimization algorithms to find (local) optimal prices.
Through a comprehensive computational study for CP, PB, BSP, and MB, they find that BSP
closely trails the performance of MB in a wide range of cases. In a recent paper, Li et al. (2021)
develop a novel convex optimization approach to approximately solve BSP. Their approach scales
well with the numbers of customers and products but requires the first and second moments of
customer valuations, which could not be applied to our setting.
Closely related to the study on bundle pricing, there is another stream of literature on nonlinear
pricing. (In the bundling literature, customers demand at most one unit for each product, whereas
in the nonlinear pricing literature, customers may require multiple units for each product.) Within
this area, Armstrong (1999) shows that a two-part tariff (TPT) policy, where customers are charged
a fixed fee plus the production costs of purchased products, approximately achieves the optimal
profit when the number of products tends to infinity. When production costs are zero, TPT is
equivalent to PB and the asymptotic result is similar to that of Bakos and Brynjolfsson (1999).
Notably, some recent papers propose and study novel bundling mechanisms. For example, Ma
and Simchi-Levi (2021) propose “pure bundling with disposal for cost ( PBDC),” where customers
are allowed to purchase only the grant bundle but may return any product for a refund equal to its
production cost. Sun et al. (2021) propose “bundle recommendation and pricing,” which offers a

7
single bundle discount on top of CP in a mechanism that can be seen as a special case of MB. Chen
et al. (2021) investigate a randomized adaptive bundling scheme called “lootbox” and analyze the
performance. In our study, we propose and analyze another novel mechanism, namely CPBSD.
Finally, we note that bundle pricing has also been studied in the OM community via other angles,
such as robust optimization (Chen et al. 2022), data-drive approaches and optimization (Ettl et al.
2020), dynamic inventory management (Song and Xue 2021), add-on discounts (Simchi-Levi et al.
2022), personalized recommendation (Xue et al. 2016, Ettl et al. 2020), service systems (Wu and
Yang 2018), and customer search (Wu et al. 2022).
3. The Model
Consider a firm selling N products to consumers, denoted by N ≜ {1, . . . , N}, with production cost
cn for n ∈ N . We follow the common assumption in the bundling literature that each customer
demands at most one unit of each product but can potentially purchase multiple products. Hence, a
bundle S purchased by a consumer is a subset ofN , and there are a total of 2N bundle combinations
(including the no-purchase option). A bundle pricing mechanism of the firm can be mathematically
defined as a mapping 2 N → R≥0 that determines the price of the purchased bundle. In particular,
under CPBSD, the firm first sets a price pn for each individual product n ∈ N . Once a customer
chooses to purchase a bundle S ⊆ N that contains s = |S| products, the customer is then offered a
discount ds that applies to each product in S, resulting in a total bundle discount of sds. Note that
the amount of the discount ds only depends on the bundle size s but not on the specific products
in the bundle. The price paid by the customer is thus P
n∈S pn − sds.
3.1. Relations to Other Bundling Mechanisms
We first relate CPBSD to other bundle pricing mechanisms well studied in the literature.
• CP: the firm sets component prices ( pCP
1 , . . . , pCP
N ). The price of a bundle S isP
n∈S pCP
n .
• PB: the firm sets a single price pPB for the grand bundle. The price of a bundle S is pPB if
S = N and +∞ otherwise.
• BSP: the firm sets the prices ( bBSP
1 , . . . , bBSP
N ) for different bundle sizes. The price of a bundle
S with s products is bBSP
s . Note that BSP can recover PB by setting bBSP
1 = · · ·= bBSP
N = pPB.
• MB: the firm sets a separate price pMB
S for each bundle S ⊆ N .
As introduced earlier, the three simple mechanisms CP, PB and BSP are very commonly seen in
practice. In addition, there are two other more complicated mechanisms studied in the literature:
• Pure bundling with disposal for cost (PBDC) (Ma and Simchi-Levi 2021): the firm sets a price
pPBDC for the grand bundle N . When a bundle S is purchased, the customer first pays pPBDC
for all the products and then is reimbursed for the products not in S at the production costs.
Therefore, the price of S is pPBDC −P
n /∈S cn.

8
• Two-part tariff ( TPT): the firm sets an entry fee t and component prices ( pTPT
1 , . . . , pTPT
N ) for
each product. The price of a bundle S is t +P
n∈S pTPT
n . Note that TPT can recover CP by
setting t = 0, PB by pTPT
n = 0 and PBDC by pTPT
n = cn and a carefully chosen t, respectively.
In terms of flexibility, we observe that BSP subsumes PB and TPT subsumes CP, PB, and PBDC
as special cases. Interestingly, we can show that CPBSD generalizes both BSP and TPT, thereby
subsuming all the aforementioned mechanisms except for MB (the most flexible mechanism but
generally intractable). We include this result in the following proposition and illustrate the relations
between these mechanisms in Figure 4.
Proposition 1. CP, PB, BSP, PBDC, and TPT are all special cases of CPBSD.
Figure 4 Relationship between various bundling mechanisms
Notes. The subsets indicate the inclusion relations aforementioned, e.g., TPT and BSP are special cases of CPBSD.
An intersection signifies that there exist price menus satisfying the conditions of both bundling mechanisms. For
example, pricing at cost applies to both CP (pCP
n = cn) and PBDC (pPBDC = PN
n=1 cn). Similarly, unit pricing applies
to both CP (pCP
n = p) and BSP (bBSP
s = sp), while unit pricing with an entry fee t > 0 applies to both TPT (t and
pTPT
n = p) and BSP (bBSP
s = sp + t).
3.2. Formulation
For a purchased bundle S ⊆ N , the profit earned by the firm from CPBSD can be represented as:
X
n∈S
(pn − cn) − sds.
In order to study the optimal pricing mechanism, we need to introduce consumers’ purchasing
choices under a given pricing mechanism. In line with the framework studied in the bundling liter-
ature, we adopt the following assumptions: customers independently draw random (non-negative)
product valuations from a given joint distribution F ; and customers are additive buyers, that is,

9
the valuation of a bundle as a whole is the summed valuations of products that it contains 1.
After observing the price menu, each customer purchases the bundle that maximizes her total
surplus, which is the bundle valuation minus the payment. Since we may focus on a random cus-
tomer, we let V ≜ (V1, . . . , VN) denote the random vector of valuations for N products, and x(V ) ≜
(x1(V ), . . . , xN(V )) denote the vector of binary decision variables where xn(V ) indicates whether a
customer with valuation V buys product n. In particular, given component prices p ≜ (p1, . . . , pN)
and bundle size discounts d ≜ (d1, . . . , dN), a customer with valuation V makes the following choice:
x(V ) = arg max
(˜x1,...,˜xN )
X
n∈N
(Vn − pn + ds)˜xn, s.t.
X
n∈N
˜xn = s, ˜xn ∈ {0, 1}, ∀n ∈ N . (1)
Then, the expected profit maximization problem for the firm can be formulated as follows:
max
p,d
EV ∼F
"X
n∈N
 
pn − cn − dP
n xn(V )

xn(V )
#
(CPBSD)
s.t. ( p, d) ∈ P. (2)
Similar to the literature (Ma and Simchi-Levi 2021), we assume that in (1), the tie breaks in the
firm’s favor. In practice, this can usually be achieved by slightly adjusting the price when necessary.
Moreover, when the valuation follows a continuous distribution, ties occur with zero probability.
Remark 1 (Practical Constraints). Constraint (2) includes the practical requirements for
the bundle pricing mechanism. This is aligned with the existing bundling studies such as Hanson
and Martin (1990). For example, the prices and discounts are non-negative, i.e., pn, ds ≥ 0 for all
n and s. Moreover, we enforce that a firm offers a higher discount for a bundle of larger size, i.e.,
sds ≥ s1ds1 + s2ds2, ∀s1 + s2 = s, s, s 1, s2 ≥ 0.
When a bundle pricing scheme violates this constraint, a customer may obtain a larger total dis-
count by purchasing multiple small-size bundles versus a single large bundle. With this constraint,
we can focus solely on the scenario where each customer purchases at most one bundle. In addition,
we require that pn − ds ≥ 0 for all n and s, meaning that no product is offered at a negative virtual
price. Without this constraint, there might be bundles offered at negative post-discount prices, and
hence the firm can in theory go bankrupt if customers repetitively purchase such bundles. Finally,
we note that d1 = 0 can be imposed without loss of generality. This is because, for d1 > 0, we can
redefine pn = pn − d1 and ds = ds − d1 without affecting the actual bundle pricing policy. In sum,
we represent these constraints as:
(p, d) ∈ P ≜ {(p, d) : d1 = 0, p n, ds ≥ 0, p n − ds ≥ 0, ∀n, s,
sds ≥ s1ds1 + s2ds2, ∀s1 + s2 = s, s, s 1, s2 ≥ 0}.
(3)
1 Non-additive valuations are used to model complementarity/substitutability among the products. We provide a
discussion on non-additive valuations in Appendix G.

10
We emphasize that (3) is only imposed from practical considerations. It is not crucial for most
theoretical results in the study. □
Note that (CPBSD) is a bi-level optimization problem, which is generally intractable. (To clarify
our notation in this paper, we refer to our proposed bundling mechanism as CPBSD, and the
corresponding optimization problem as ( CPBSD) with parentheses. We use similar notations in
our references to other bundling mechanisms.) Moreover, the inner optimization problem (1) is a
challenging non-linear integer program since ds depends on s =P
n∈N ˜xn. Nevertheless, as we show
later in Section 5, given samples of customer valuations, we are still able to reformulate the profit
maximization as an MILP, which allows us to compute the optimal prices and discounts efficiently
using off-the-shelf solvers.
3.3. Profitability
Next we discuss the profitability of CPBSD. As a corollary of Proposition 1, under the same
consumer valuation model, the profitability of CPBSD is always no less than other mechanisms
therein. It is only outperformed by the most general but computationally intractable MB. This
flexibility comes with little additional cost: the number of decision variables increases from N in
the case of CP and BSP to merely 2 N, which is still much less than that of 2 N in MB.
By combining Proposition 1 with the seminal results in Li and Yao (2013), Babaioff et al. (2014)
and Ma and Simchi-Levi (2021), we can obtain a constant bound for the profitability of CPBSD
relative to any selling mechanism.
Corollary 1. For an additive buyer with independent valuations over products, the optimal
profit of CPBSD is at least 1/5.2 of the optimal profit achieved by any selling mechanism.
Li and Yao (2013) develop a framework to analyze the performance guarantees of CP and PB.
Building on this, Babaioff et al. (2014) prove that the better of CP and PB can always attain
1/6 of the optimal profit from any selling mechanism when product valuations are independent
and production costs are zero. Furthermore, Ma and Simchi-Levi (2021) improve this bound to
1/5.2 through a finer analysis, and demonstrate that, when replacing PB with PBDC, the bound
still applies even with production costs (for the better of CP and PBDC). Since CPBSD subsumes
CP, PB, and PBDC as special cases, Corollary 1 follows naturally. It is worth noting that, as a
single policy, CPBSD can achieve a constant-factor ratio of the optimal profit without needing to
be combined with other mechanisms. This feature makes it easier to implement in practice.
Whereas CPBSD is in general no less profitable than most bundling mechanisms except for MB,
the lingering question is how substantial the benefit is. After all, if CPBSD is only able to attain the
same profitability as other simpler mechanisms, then the introduction of the additional complexity,
albeit minimal as we have argued before Corollary 1, may not be desirable. In the rest of this

11
section, we provide evidence that the benefit can be significant, and even unbounded in certain
cases. The analysis is based on carefully constructed instances that specify the number of products
N, the costs (c1, . . . , cN) and the valuation distribution of V (i.e., F ). These well-designed instances
allow us to compute and compare the optimal profits of CPBSD and other bundle pricing policies.
In the following proposition, with a slight abuse of notation, we simply use the mechanism name
to denote the optimal profit of the corresponding mechanism in the constructed instance.
Proposition 2. There exist a sequence of instances indexed by N such that
CPBSD > log N
6 · max{TPT, BSP}.
Recall that TPT generalizes CP, PB, and PBDC as special cases. Hence, Proposition 2 establishes
the profitability of CPBSD relative to all mechanisms discussed earlier in the paper other thanMB in
the order of logN. It implies that, as N → ∞, CPBSD can generate infinitely higher profits than the
other mechanisms. This result is somewhat surprising given the seminal findings in Babaioff et al.
(2014) and Ma and Simchi-Levi (2021), which highlight the strong performance, i.e., constant bound
relative to any mechanism, of the combination of CP and PB (or PBDC). Nevertheless, our result
does not lead to a theoretical contradiction because the instances we construct impose a correlation
structure among Vn’s, differing from the independent valuation assumption in Babaioff et al. (2014)
and Ma and Simchi-Levi (2021). To our knowledge, this is the first example demonstrating that a
bundling mechanism (CPBSD) can outperform TPT and BSP by an infinite factor.
The construction of the instances in Proposition 2 is highly non-trivial and may be of independent
interest. Before delving into the details, we briefly provide insights into the design of these instances
and outline why CPBSD outperforms other mechanisms in this context:
• Compared to TPT (including CP, PB and PBDC as special cases), CPBSD is better able to
mitigate the dispersion of product valuations through various bundle size discounts. In these
instances, we consider multiple categories of customers, with each category holding positive
valuations for a different number of products. Pricing based on bundle size enables the firm to
extract a greater portion of, or even the entire, customer surplus by offering the most suitable
bundle to each group.
• Compared to BSP (including PB as a special case), CPBSD can more efficiently pass the cost
of each individual product to customers . In these instances, we consider a high-cost product
that is only profitable when sold to a small segment of customers who have a high valuation
and are thus willing to pay a premium. Under BSP, any customer can include this high-cost
product in the bundle, but the firm cannot pass the cost to them. In contrast, CPBSD can
resolve this issue by setting a high component price for the specific product.

12
In the following, we describe the instances in Proposition 2, and we provide detailed proofs in
Appendix A.2. We first consider instances where CPBSD and BSP can vastly outperform TPT.
Instance 1. The instance I(1)
N consists of N products with zero costs (c1 = . . .= cN = 0) and has
a discrete joint valuation distribution. In particular, there are a total of N categories of customers,
indexed by k = 1, ..., N, and the probability mass that a customer belongs to category k is
q(1)
k ≜
 1√
k − 1√k+1 , if 1 ≤ k ≤ N − 1,
1√
N , if k = N.
Given category k, a customer has a positive valuation 1√
k for each of k randomly selected products
and zero valuation for the remaining N − k products. Thus, this can be interpreted as
 N
k

distinct
customer sub-types within the category. □
The novelty of the above construction lies in the choice of valuations and probability mass, which
allows us, under various bundling mechanisms, to (i) find the optimal price menus satisfying both
the incentive compatibility and practical constraints, and (ii) compute the corresponding optimal
profits. Then, we have the following results
Lemma 1. In instance I(1)
N , CPBSD can extract all surplus, and the following bounds hold
(1) CPBSD can be lower bounded by CPBSD(I(1)
N ) = BSP(I(1)
N ) ≥ 1
2(log N + 1).
(2) TPT can be upper bounded by TPT(I(1)
N ) ≤ PB(I(1)
N ) +CP(I(1)
N ) < 3.
We find that, in I(1)
N , by selling the most profitable bundle to each customer category, both
CPBSD and BSP can outperform TPT infinitely as N → ∞. Furthermore, CPBSD and BSP can
extract all surplus, thereby actually achieving the maximum possible profit under any selling mech-
anism. Despite the discrete valuation distribution, finding the optimal prices under TPT remains
challenging due to the exponentially large solution space. To address this, we develop an upper
bound for TPT and demonstrate that it is significantly lower than the profits from CPBSD.
Next, we construct instances to differentiate CPBSD from BSP. To this end, we examine the
inability of BSP to account for heterogeneous production costs.
Instance 2. Building on I(1)
N , the instance I(2)
N introduces an additional product-0 with a high
cost of c0 = 2N 2√
N. It also includes a new customer category-0, which contains two sub-types:
type-(0,1) and type-(0,2), with probability masses of 1
N 3 and 1
N 2 , respectively. Customers in type-
(0,1) and type-(0,2) value product-0 at c0 + 1 = 2N 2√
N + 1 and
√
N, respectively, and they have
zero valuation for all other products. The original customers from I(1)
N have zero valuation for
product-0, and their probability mass is reduced proportionally by a factor of 1 − 1
N 2 − 1
N 3 . □
Note that, in I(2)
N , product-0 is highly unprofitable for most (but not all) customers due to its high
cost (it only generates a positive surplus for customers in type-(0,1)). To avoid losses from selling
product-0, BSP must set a high price for single-item bundles, making other products unsellable. In

13
contrast, CPBSD can set separate component prices, allowing it to profit from selling all products.
Then, we have the following results
Lemma 2. In instance I(2)
N , CPBSD can extract all surplus, and the following bounds hold
(1) CPBSD can be lower bounded by CPBSD(I(2)
N ) ≥ 1
2
 
1 − 1
N 2 − 1
N 3

(log N + 1).
(2) TPT can be upper bounded by TPT(I(2)
N ) < 3
 
1 − 1
N 2 − 1
N 3

+ 3
N
√
N , and BSP(I(2)
N ) = 1
N 3 .
We can show that the sequence of instances I(2)
N satisfy Proposition 2 for all N ≥ 2, because
CPBSD(I(2)
N )
max

TPT(I(2)
N ), BSP(I(2)
N )
	 ≥
1
2
 
1 − 1
N 2 − 1
N 3

(1 + 1/log N)
3
 
1 − 1
N 2 − 1
N 3

+ 3
N
√
N
· log N > 1
6 log N.
4. Asymptotic Analysis
In this section, we study the asymptotic performance of CPBSD when the firm is selling a very
large number of products, i.e., N → ∞.
4.1. Preliminaries
To highlight the number of products in our analysis, we add the subscript N to the notation.
For example, VN ≜ (V1, . . . , VN), pN ≜ (p1, . . . , pN), and cN ≜ (c1, . . . , cN) are vectors of random
valuations, component prices, and production costs for N products, respectively. Before a discount
is applied, these products yield a vector of surplus (or net utility) UN ≜ VN − pN to the customer.
Let (U(1), . . . , U(N)) be the order statistic ofUN, where U(1) ≤ · · · ≤U(N). When a customer purchases
a bundle of size s, she ranks all N products according to Un’s and then chooses the top s products
with the largest values of U(N), . . . , U(N −s+1). Let τ : N 7→ N be a permutation function such that
Uτ(n) = U(n) for n ∈ N . That is, the customer chooses products τ(N), . . . , τ(N − s + 1) to form
the bundle of size s. As a result, before a discount is applied, the net utility of the bundle of
size s is RN(s) ≜Ps−1
n=0 U(N −n) =Ps−1
n=0
 
Vτ(N −n) − pτ(N −n)

, and the price and the cost for the
bundle are PN(s) ≜Ps−1
n=0 pτ(N −n) and CN(s) ≜Ps−1
n=0 cτ(N −n), respectively. Given the discount menu
dN = (d1, . . . , dN), a customer receives a total discount sds for purchasing a bundle of size s. Note
that, under CPBSD, the bundle size discount does not change a customer’s preference ranking
of products, because the same amount of discount ds is applied to each product. Therefore, the
customer chooses the bundle size that maximizes her surplus:
ζ(VN , pN , dN) ∈ arg max
s∈{0,1,...,N }
{RN(s) +sds} . (4)
Here, we set RN(0) = 0 for the no-purchase option s = 0. Then, the firm earns a realized profit
θ(pN , dN) ≜
NX
s=0
(PN(s) − sds − CN(s)) 1 {ζ(VN , pN , dN) = s} , (5)

14
where 1 {·} is the indicator function. The firm seeks for a pricing scheme ( pN , dN) to maximize the
expected profit E [θ(pN , dN)].
Next, we introduce the assumptions for our asymptotic analysis.
Assumption 1 (Composition of VN). For each product n ∈ N , let Zn ≜ Vn − cn denote the
potential surplus of product n. We assume that Zn’s are uniformly bounded random variables and
the empirical distribution, denoted as FZ,N(·), converges weakly to some limit distribution, FZ(·):
FZ,N(z) ≜ 1
N
NX
n=1
1 {Zn ≤ z} ⇒ FZ(z) as N → ∞.
The empirical average also converges in probability,
1
N
NX
n=1
Zn
p
→
Z ∞
−∞
zdFZ(z) as N → ∞.
Assumption 1 states that a product’s valuation is comprised of two components, i.e.,Vn = cn+Zn.
The first component is the production cost; in general, a product with a high production cost tends
to yield a high valuation. The second componentZn is a random term, which we refer to aspotential
surplus. The convergence of the empirical distribution of Zn is a weak version of the Glivenko-
Cantelli Lemma and can hold if there is sufficient mixing in the random variables (see Billingsley
1999 for more details). A sufficient condition for Assumption 1 is thatZn’s are drawn independently
from the same distribution FZ with a finite support. Note that, Assumption 1 may still hold when
Zn’s are drawn from non-identical or correlated distributions. This possibility greatly generalizes
our results, as they can be applied to heterogeneous products. Moreover, Assumption 1 allows Zn
to depend on cn, and does not require the convergence of the cost terms (cn can be deterministic or
random). On this dimension, Assumption 1 relaxes similar assumptions imposed in the literature.
However, we have to assume that Zn’s are uniformly bounded. Later in the section, we establish
that by imposing a stronger assumption, namely that Zn’s are i.i.d., as adopted in previous studies
(Bakos and Brynjolfsson 1999, Ma and Simchi-Levi 2021), we can derive a stronger result regarding
the profit generated by CPBSD.
Recall that we defined RN(s), PN(s), and CN(s) as the pre-discount net utility, price, and cost
for a bundle of size s, respectively. We now introduce the social welfare WN(s) ≜ RN(s) +PN(s) −
CN(s), which is the sum of the consumer surplus RN(s)+ sds and the firm’s profit PN(s) − CN(s) −
sds. Note that the social welfare is also equivalent to the sum of potential surplus over products
in the bundle, i.e, WN(s) =Ps−1
n=0 Zτ(N −n). In the asymptotic regime, we normalize these values by
N and continualize s by defining ¯RN(t) = 1
N RN(⌊N t⌋), ¯PN(t) = 1
N PN(⌊N t⌋), ¯CN(t) = 1
N CN(⌊N t⌋),
and ¯WN(t) = 1
N WN(⌊N t⌋), for t ∈ [0, 1], respectively. Here, t denotes the fraction of products that
form the bundle, i.e., the normalized bundle size. By analyzing the convergence of these normalized
values, we obtain the following lemma. (The detailed proof is provided in Appendix B.1.)

15
Lemma 3. For any given t ∈ [0, 1] and as N → ∞, we have
¯WN(t) ⇒ ¯W (t) ≜
Z t
0
F −1
Z (1 − q)dq.
Under Lemma 3, we can see that, whenN tends to infinity, the random function ¯WN(t) converges
to ¯W (t) and hence behaves almost deterministically. As a result, if the firm charges a markup
component price pn = cn + η for some constant η, then ¯RN(t) converges to a deterministic function
¯R(t) ≜
R t
0 (F −1
Z (1 − q) − η)dq. Since the only randomness in the customer’s choice of bundle size is
embedded in the net utility ¯RN(t), Lemma 3 implies that CPBSD with simple mark-up component
prices can perfectly induce a customer’s bundle size choice ζ(VN , pN , dN) in (4), regardless of the
random realization of VN. Intuitively, as N → ∞, given a target bundle size s′, a firm can choose
a sufficiently large markup η and a relatively small discount dN such that RN(s) +sds ≤ 0 for all
s ̸= s′, i.e., the consumer surplus is non-positive for any bundle other than the target size. In the
meanwhile, the firm offers a suitable discount ds′ to ensure RN(s′) + s′ds′ > 0, and therefore, the
customer would choose the target bundle size s′. In the asymptotic region, this movement toward
a deterministic customer gives the firm an opportunity to extract almost all the consumer surplus
from a CPBSD transaction. (The same intuition also drives the result in Bakos and Brynjolfsson
(1999) whereby PB can extract almost all of the consumer surplus when N is large and production
costs are zero.)
4.2. Asymptotic Profitability
To study the asymptotic profit of CPBSD, we examine the pricing scheme which maximizes the
social welfare, since this approach facilitates the technical analysis by allowing us to ignore the
exact form of the bundle size discount. In the limit, the normalized social welfare converges to a
simple form ¯W (t) according to Lemma 3. Hence, we consider maximizing ¯W (t) as:
t∗ ≜ arg max
t∈[0,1]
¯W (t) = sup
t∈[0,1]
{t : F −1
Z (1 − t) ≥ 0}, (6)
¯W (t∗) =
Z t∗
0
F −1
Z (1 − q)dq =
Z 1
0
 
F −1
Z (1 − q)
+
dq =
Z ∞
0
zdFZ(z). (7)
Here, the optimal normalized bundle size t∗ derived in (6) translates to a bundle size s∗ ≜ ⌊N t∗⌋
for a finite N.
To induce a customer to choose the target bundle size s∗, we choose a parameter ϵ ∈ (0, ¯W (t∗)/2)
and set the bundle size discount using a step function:
sds = m
 
N ϵ− N ¯R(t∗)

, for ms∗ ≤ s < (m + 1)s∗, ∀m = 0, 1, . . . ,⌊N/s∗⌋. (8)
Let p∗
N = cN + η denote the markup policy with a sufficient large η (e.g., greater than the upper
bound of Zn for n ∈ N ), and d∗
N denote the bundle discount derived in (8). We characterize the
properties of the pricing scheme (p∗
N , d∗
N) below. (The detailed proof is provided in Appendix B.2.)

16
Theorem 1 (Asymptotic lower bound) . Under Assumption 1, for (p∗
N , d∗
N) and ϵ ∈
(0, ¯W (t∗)/2), the followings hold:
1. All customer will purchase a bundle of size s∗ with probability one as N → ∞.
2. ( p∗
N , d∗
N) satisfies all of the practical constraints in (3) for any N.
3. The asymptotic normalized profit is no less than
lim
N →∞
1
N E [θ(p∗
N , d∗
N)] ≥ ¯W (t∗) − ϵ.
Part 1 of Theorem 1 demonstrates that it can precisely capture all customers’ purchases of a speci-
fied bundle size. We note that although all customers buy the same bundle size, the composition of
the bundles varies across customers. This illustrates the power of CPBSD in capturing customers’
heterogeneity. Part 3 of Theorem 1 states that the optimal CPBSD policy is lower bounded by
¯W (t∗) − ϵ, and we next show that ¯W (t∗) is also an upper bound for any bundling mechanism. Note
that the expected profit under perfect price discrimination ( PPD), i.e., PN
n=1 E[(Vn − cn)+], is the
maximum possible profit that a firm may obtain under any selling mechanism. This observation
leads us to the result in Theorem 2. (The detailed proof is provided in Appendix B.3.)
Theorem 2 (Asymptotic upper bound) . Under Assumption 1, the asymptotically optimal
normalized profit of any bundling mechanism is upper bounded by
lim
N →∞
1
N
NX
n=1
E[(Vn − cn)+] = ¯W (t∗).
Note that although the constructed policy ( p∗
N , d∗
N) depends on ϵ, it is a special (potentially
suboptimal) policy in the class of CPBSD. As a result, combining Theorems 1 and 2, the normal-
ized optimal profit of CPBSD is between ¯W (t∗) − ϵ and ¯W (t∗). Since ϵ can be chosen arbitrarily
small, it implies that the optimal profit of CPBSD already reaches the profit level earned by PPD
asymptotically and thus cannot be improved by any other bundling mechanism including MB. In
the following, we use an example to demonstrate above analysis and provide more intuition for the
mechanism of CPBSD.
Example 1. Consider a firm selling a very large number of products (i.e., N → ∞). The val-
uations Vn’s are i.i.d. random variables uniformly distributed on [0 , 1], and the production costs
are cn = n/N + c0, for all n, where c0 ∈ [0, 1] is a constant. First, we examine the profitability of
CPBSD. To begin, we verify that Zn = Vn − cn satisfies Assumption 1. It is clear that Zn’s are
independent. For a given z, we have
Var(FZ,N (z)) = Var
 
1
N
NX
n=1
1 {Zn ≤ z}
!
= 1
N 2
NX
n=1
P {Zn ≤ z}(1 − P {Zn ≤ z}) ≤ 1
4N ,

17
where the last inequality follows from the property of the quadratic function. Hence, we have
limN →∞ Var(FZ,N (z)) = 0, and by Chebyshev’s inequality, we obtain the weak convergence of the
empirical distribution of Zn’s. Moreover, since zn ∈ [−c0 − n/N,1 − c0 − n/N] and P{Zn ≤ z} =
z + n/N + c0, the limit distribution of FZ,N is
FZ(z) =
 1
2 (z + c0)
2
+ (z + c0) + 1
2 , z ∈ [−1 − c0, −c0),
− 1
2 (z + c0)
2
+ (z + c0) + 1
2 , z ∈ [−c0, 1 − c0].
Note that, in this example, Zn is not independent of cn, illustrating the generality of Assumption 1.
By Theorem 2, the asymptotic normalized profit under PPD is
¯W (t∗) =
Z 1−c0
0
zdFZ(z) =
Z 1−c0
0
z (1 − c0 − z) dz = (1 − c0)3
6 ,
which is an upper bound for any bundling mechanism. Therefore, according to Theorem 1, the
pricing scheme ( p∗
N , d∗
N) yields a normalized profit of (1 − c0)3/6 − ϵ. By choosing a sufficiently
small ϵ > 0, CPBSD achieves asymptotically optimal, i.e., extracting almost all of the consumer
surplus.
ϵ
¯W(t*)
¯W(t*)−ϵ
(a) The asymptotic normalized values of social
welfare, total discount and consumer surplus of
a random customer given the normalized bundle
size t. The area in the dotted square is displayed
in an enlarged view in the right panel.
ϵ
¯W(t*)
¯W(t*)−ϵ
(b) An enlarged view around t∗, i.e., the opti-
mal normalized bundle size, from the left panel.
When purchasing t∗, the customer receives the
maximum normalized consumer surplus ϵ, and
the firm achieves a normalized profit ¯W (t∗) − ϵ.
Figure 5 An example of the asymptotic optimality achieved by CPBSD.
Next, to help with the understanding, we visualize the pricing scheme ( p∗
N , d∗
N) in Figure 5 for
c0 = 1/3. In Figure 5(a), as N → ∞, Lemma 3 states that the normalized social welfare converges to
¯W (t), illustrated by the red curve, and the optimal normalized bundle size is t∗ = 2/9 according to
(6). Then, we set the bundle size discount using the step function (8), and show the normalized total

18
discount ¯D(t) ≜ limN →∞ sds/N = limN →∞ tdtN in the blue curve. Under ( p∗
N , d∗
N), the normalized
consumer surplus ¯R(t) + ¯D(t) is displayed in the black curve. Now, we clearly observe that the
customer is perfectly induced to purchase the target bundle size t∗, which yields the maximum
consumer surplus. In Figure 5(b), we show the enlarged view around t∗, and illustrate the split of
the total welfare into the consumer surplus and the firm’s profit.
Finally, we examine the profitability of other bundling mechanisms. Regarding CP, it obtains
a profit ( pn − cn)P{Vn ≥ pn} from product n, and hence the optimal component price is pCP
n =
(cn + 1)/2 for n ≤ N(1 − c0). ( CP cannot earn profit from products n > (1 − c0)N because the
production cost is always higher than the valuation.) Therefore, the optimal normalized profit
obtained by CP is
lim
N →∞
1
N
(1−c0)NX
n=1
 
pCP
n − cn
 
1 − pCP
n

= (1 − c0)3
12 .
For BSP, the policy derived in Abdallah et al. (2021) can obtain an asymptotically optimal profit
in the case of equal production costs. Given the heterogeneous production costs in this example,
it yields a normalized profit
E[(V1 − ¯c)+] =
Z 1
1
2 +c0

x − 1
2 − c0

dx = ((1/2 − c0)+)2
2 ,
where ¯c = c0 +1/2 is the asymptotic mean ofcN. Between CP and BSP, the former is more profitable
for larger c0, while the latter is more profitable for small c0. However, neither CP or BSP can
achieve asymptotic optimality as what CPBSD achieves.
In addition, we also evaluate the consumer surplus that a customer obtains under each mecha-
nism. For CP, the normalized consumer surplus is
lim
N →∞
1
N
(1−c0)NX
n=1
Z 1
0
(v − p∗
n)+dv = (1 − c0)3
24 .
For BSP, a customer receives zero surplus asymptotically. Therefore, the social welfare of both CP
and BSP is less than that of PPD. Regarding CPBSD, the pricing scheme ( p∗
N , d∗
N) can generate
the maximal social welfare and create an allocation of a normalized profit ¯W (t∗) − ϵ to the firm and
a normalized surplus ϵ to the customer. A profit-maximizing firm would choose a small ϵ to garner
the highest possible profit. However, in the case where the consumer surplus is also a consideration,
a firm can balance the allocation of social welfare between itself and customers by tuning ϵ. For
example, if a firm sets ϵ = (1− c0)3/24, a customer can obtain as much surplus as that in CP, while
at the same time the firm receives a normalized profit (1 − c0)3/8, 50% higher than that in CP.
Therefore, CPBSD includes a wide range of mechanisms that are on the efficient frontier of the
profit/surplus split. □

19
At the end of the section, we extend the asymptotic optimality of CPBSD to a finite-sample
result that characterizes the profitability of CPBSD relative to PPD for a finite number of products.
There are major challenges in the extension: note that the asymptotic analysis in Theorem 1 hinges
on the fact that, in the limit, all customers would choose a bundle of a fixed size. This significantly
simplifies the analysis. Under finite samples, the choice of bundles is not deterministic. Typically,
such issues are resolved with concentration inequalities, as the valuations for bundles are supposed
to concentrate around the mean in the limit and so is the bundle choice. However, in the setting of
bundling, there are 2 N random valuations for the bundles to concentrate, because customers are
comparing all possible combinations out of N products to pick the favorite bundle. Even without
accounting for the complex correlation between them, as many of the bundles include overlapping
products, a direct application of the union bound to control for the error probability that none of
the valuations for the bundles deviate remarkably from their means can easily fail.
To circumvent the issue, we first apply the Dvoretzky–Kiefer–Wolfowitz inequality to bound the
error probability of the empirical distribution function FZ,N deviating from FZ in the ℓ∞ sense.
Since ¯WN is a continuous functional of FZ,N in terms of the ℓ∞ norm under Assumption 1, it leads
to the concentration of ¯WN around ¯W . In other words, instead of attempting to concentrate the
valuations of all bundles, we focus on the concentration of the random function ¯WN. With this
building block, we bound the following two quantities under the CPBSD mechanism (p∗
N , d∗
N) with
a carefully chosen ϵ = O(ln(N)N −1/2) : (1) the probability that a customer chooses a bundle whose
normalized size is N −1/2 away from t∗; (2) the minimal profit earned by the firm when a customer
purchases a bundle whose normalized size is close to t∗. Combining both quantities leads to a lower
bound for the profit of CPBSD. (The detailed proof is provided in Appendix B.4.)
Theorem 3 (Finite-sample bound for CPBSD). In addition to Assumption 1, assume that
{Zn}N
n=1 are i.i.d. random variables. With a chosen ϵ = O(log(N)N −1/2), there exists a constant
N0 > 0 which such that, for any N > N0, CPBSD can achieve a normalized profit no less than
1
N E [θ(p∗
N , d∗
N)] ≥ ¯W (t∗)

1 − 9
16 log(N)N −1/2

.
To conclude this section, we compare our result with the literature, particularly Bakos and
Brynjolfsson (1999), Abdallah et al. (2021), Ma and Simchi-Levi (2021). Although the mechanisms
in all the papers achieve asymptotic optimality, the underlying assumptions differ. To avoid delving
into technical nuances, we summarize the major restrictions in Table 1. From the cost perspective,
both our study and Ma and Simchi-Levi (2021) allow for heterogeneous costs, making them the
most general. Ma and Simchi-Levi (2021) assume independent valuations while we allow for weak
dependence; meanwhile, we assume that the potential surplus Vn − cn is uniformly bounded. Both

20
assumptions (independence and uniform upper bound) appear to be technical and could potentially
be relaxed via a finer analysis. However, for PB and BSP, the assumption of zero or homogeneous
costs is fundamental, without which the asymptotic optimality cannot be achieved. In summary,
CPBSD and PBDC can achieve asymptotic optimality under the weakest assumptions. Regarding
the convergence rate, defined as ( PPD − profit)/N where “profit” represents the optimal profit
under a given mechanism, we note that, aside from the logarithmic factors, N −1/2 is generally the
best attainable rate.
It is worth noting that the convergence rate may heavily depend on the focal mechanism.
For instance, the O(N −1/3) rate for PB in Bakos and Brynjolfsson (1999) is later improved to
O(log(N)1/2N −1/2) for BSP in Abdallah et al. (2021). It remains an interesting future direction to
investigate the tightness of the rates for specific mechanisms and whether more complex mecha-
nisms, like MB, can surpass the N −1/2 rate.
Table 1 Summary of asymptotic optimality and the corresponding assumptions
Bundling mechanism Assumptions on VN, cN Convergence rate
CPBSD (this paper) Uniform upper bound for Vn − cn O(log(N)N −1/2)
PB (Bakos and Brynjolfsson 1999) Zero costs O(N −1/3)
PBDC (Ma and Simchi-Levi 2021) Independent Vn O(N −1/3)
BSP (Abdallah et al. 2021) Homogeneous costs O(log(N)1/2N −1/2)
5. Computation of CPBSD
In this section, we study the computation of the optimal pricing scheme, i.e., prices and discounts,
for CPBSD, and we propose an MILP formulation. In addition, we develop an approximation
algorithm for solving large-scale problems in Appendix B.7.
5.1. MILP Formulation
Following the literature, we solve a sample version of the bundling problem, because the expectation
over the continuous random valuationsV may lead to infinite constraints for (CPBSD). Specifically,
we evaluate the expectation using a number of realized customer valuations vk ≜ (vk1, . . . , vkN),
where vkn represents the valuation of customer k ∈ K ≜ {1, . . . , K} for product n ∈ N . Here, one
may think that vk’s are samples of V drawn independently from the joint distribution F for each
customer k ∈ K. As a result, we focus on the following problem:
max
p,d
1
K
X
k∈K
X
n∈N
 
pn − cn − dP
n xn(vk)

xn(vk), (CPBSD-sample)
s.t. ( p, d) ∈ P.

21
The solution to ( CPBSD-sample) can serve as a good approximate solution to ( CPBSD), especially
when K is large.
To begin, let xkns ∈ {0, 1} be an indicator that equals one if and only if customer k purchases
a bundle of size s that contains product n. Given that customer k purchases a bundle of size s
(i.e.,P
n∈N xkns = s), to maximize her surplus, she must determine the products contained in the
bundle by solving the following bundle content selection problem:
max
xkns
X
n∈N
(vkn − pn + ds)xkns, (BCS)
s.t.
X
n∈N
xkns = s, x kns ∈ {0, 1}, ∀n ∈ N .
Note that s, k, pn, ds, and vkn for n ∈ N are given for ( BCS) in the above problem.
The binary constraint xkns ∈ {0, 1} in (BCS) can be relaxed to a linear one, 0 ≤ xkns ≤ 1, without
affecting the optimal solution. That is, we can reframe ( BCS) as a linear program (LP):
max
xkns
X
n∈N
(vkn − pn + ds)xkns, (BCS-LP)
s.t.
X
n∈N
xkns = s, 0 ≤ xkns ≤ 1, ∀n ∈ N .
Furthermore, of particular importance to our formulation is the dual of ( BCS-LP) as below:
min
αks,βkns
sαks +
X
n∈N
βkns, (BCS-dual)
s.t. αks + βkns ≥ vkn − pn + ds, α ks is free, β kns ≥ 0, ∀n ∈ N .
Duality theory tells us that the objective of ( BCS-dual) is an upper bound on the optimal value
of ( BCS-LP), and that this bound can be tight. Formally, we state the equivalence of the three
formulations in Proposition 3. (The proof is provided in Appendix B.5.)
Proposition 3. The optimal values of (BCS), (BCS-LP), and (BCS-dual) are equal.
Although BCS is not hard to solve and the duality is almost trivial to obtain, its role is crucial in
the MILP formulation. It allows us to convert the consumer’s problem into a minimization problem,
so that we can collapse the two objectives in the bi-level optimization into a single formulation. Let
qkns = (pn − ds)xkns denote the payment that customer k pays for purchasing product n in a bundle
of size s. The objective of the firm is to maximize the total profitP
k∈K
P
n∈N
P
s∈S(qkns − cnxkns).
Here, we introduce S ≡ N to denote the set of bundle sizes for readability. Note that we use qkns
instead of (pn − ds)xkns in the objective function to avoid bilinearity because both pn and xkns are
decision variables. What follows is our MILP along with an explanation of the linear form.
max 1
K
X
k∈K
X
n∈N
X
s∈S
(qkns − cnxkns), (CPBSD-MILP)

22
s.t. wk ≥ sαks +
X
n∈N
βkns, ∀k ∈ K, ∀s ∈ S, (9)
αks + βkns ≥ vkn − pn + ds, ∀k ∈ K, ∀n ∈ N , ∀s ∈ S, (10)
αks is free, β kns ≥ 0, ∀k ∈ K, ∀n ∈ N , ∀s ∈ S, (11)
X
s∈S
yks ≤ 1, ∀k ∈ K, (12)
X
n∈N
xkns = syks, ∀k ∈ K, ∀s ∈ S, (13)
X
s∈S
xkns ≤ 1, ∀k ∈ K, ∀n ∈ N , (14)
xkns ≤ yks, ∀k ∈ K, ∀n ∈ N , ∀s ∈ S, (15)
qkns ≥ pn − ds − M(1 − xkns), ∀k ∈ K, ∀n ∈ N , ∀s ∈ S, (16)
qkns ≤ pn − ds, ∀k ∈ K, ∀n ∈ N , ∀s ∈ S, (17)
wks =
X
n∈N
(vknxkns − qkns), ∀k ∈ K, ∀s ∈ S, (18)
wk =
X
s∈S
wks, ∀k ∈ K (19)
wk ≥
X
n∈N
X
s∈S
(vknxjns − qjns), ∀k ∈ K, ∀j ∈ K/{k}, (20)
sds ≥ s1ds1 + s2ds2, ∀s ∈ S, s 1 + s2 = s, s 1, s2 ≥ 0, (21)
pn, ds, qkns, wks, wk ≥ 0, d 1 = 0 (22)
xkns, yks ∈ {0, 1}. (23)
In the above, note that constraints (9) through (11) utilize ( BCS-dual) to ensure that every
customer maximizes her surplus when making her purchasing decision. For customerk, the obtained
surplus wk is required to be no less than the objective of ( BCS-dual), which is an upper bound
for (BCS-LP). This happens only when customer k chooses the optimal bundle size with the best
composition of products. In this case, (9) holds at equality.
Next, we introduce another set of indicators yks ∈ {0, 1}, which equals one if and only if customer
k purchases a bundle of size s. Continuing with our formulation, constraint (12) states that each
customer may either purchase one bundle or make no purchase. Constraint (13) counts the size of
the purchased bundle. Constraint (14) indicates that a customer can purchase at most one unit of
each product. Constraint (15) further strengthens the relationship between yks and xkns. Note that
(14) and (15) result directly from (12) and (13) and hence are redundant in the modeling sense.
Nonetheless, we include them in our model because they lead to a tighter LP relaxation which
helps the branch-and-bound algorithm.
Constraints (16) and (17) linearize the definition of qkns = (pn − ds)xkns by using the big-M
technique, where we set M to be a sufficiently large number. When xkns = 1, (16) and (17) become

23
the equality qkns = pn − ds; when xkns = 0, because M is sufficiently large, (16) essentially becomes
vacuous. In this latter case, as we shall see, constraints (18) and (19) force qkns to be zero.
Constraints (16) to (19) connect a customer’s payment qkns, her choice of products xkns and
the surplus obtained wk in linear forms. When xkns = 1 and qkns = pn − ds, customer k receives
surplus vkn − pn + ds from purchasing product n according to the right side of (18); when xkns = 0,
customer k receives a surplus of −qkns from product n in a bundle of size s. Given qkns ≥ 0 from
(22), qkns must be zero when xkns = 0; otherwise it will reduce wk which conflicts with ( BCS-dual)
imposed by constraints (9) to (11), because it fails to meet the upper bound condition for customer
k’s realized surplus.
Constraint (20) states that the surplus obtained by customer k from following her own decision
must be no less than the surplus she would obtain from following another customer’s decision.
Similar to (14) and (15), while (20) is redundant, we include it to tighten the relaxed program.
Finally, constraint (21) guarantees a higher discount is offered to a bundle of larger size, con-
straint (22) ensures the nonnegativity of all the variables, and constraint (23) represents the binary
constraint for the indicators. Note that, in our model, a customer can always opt out by not
purchasing anything, i.e., xkns = 0 and yks = 0 for all n and s.
The above discussion can be formalized in the following theorem. (The proof is provided in
Appendix B.6.)
Theorem 4. In the optimal solution to the formulation (CPBSD-MILP), p and d constitute the
optimal solution to (CPBSD-sample).
Our formulation of (CPBSD-MILP) utilizes a novel derivation. As mentioned earlier, Hanson and
Martin (1990) provide an MILP formulation forMB. However, their formulation needs to enumerate
all possible bundles, which would create an exponential number of decision variables if it were used
to derive CPBSD. Wu et al. (2008) avoid the need to list all bundles in their derivation for BSP
by explicitly sorting each customer’s valuations for different products since customers will always
buy their most valued products under BSP. However, under CPBSD, in addition to the product
valuations, customer choices also depend on the component prices which are decision variables. To
overcome the difficulty in determining customers’ selections, we incorporate (BCS) and (BCS-dual)
into our MILP. We draw on Hanson and Martin (1990) in our linearization of the bi-linear terms in
the objective function and constraints. While our formulation is more complicated than that of MB
and BSP due to the selection of bundle content, our inclusion of qkns and constraints (16) to (19)
allow us to derive our final MILP. (The formulation of BSP in Wu et al. (2008) is a mixed-integer
nonlinear program. Using the linearization trick, we also formulate BSP as an MILP, which is much
more computationally tractable. See Appendix C.)

24
Regarding the computational complexity, in ( CPBSD-MILP), there are O(KN 2) variables and
O(KN 2 + K2) constraints, compared to O(K2N) variables and O(K2N) constraints in MB, and
O(KN ) variables and O(K2 + N 2) constraints in BSP. Overall, CPBSD is slightly more expensive
to solve than BSP, but a lot cheaper than MB, which is virtually impossible to solve for a large N
without approximations. (It is worth pointing out that the computation time for solving an MILP
using solvers does not depend solely on the number of constraints and variables. The tightness
of the relaxations also contributes to the total computation time.) In our numerical experiments,
(CPBSD-MILP) can be solved for problems with K = 50 and N = 5 in 5 minutes.
6. Numerical Analysis and Results
In this section, we conduct an extensive numerical study to assess the pricing performance of our
proposed CPBSD, compared to CP, PB, BSP, PBDC, and MB. We evaluate the efficiency of CPBSD
with the MILP formulation and the approximation algorithm in Section 6.1, and present numerical
results on the asymptotic performance of CPBSD in Section 6.2.
6.1. Profit Performance of CPBSD
Experimental Setup. We largely follow the design of product valuations in Chu et al. (2011).
Specifically, we use the same 5 families of parametric distributions, e.g., exponential, logit, lognor-
mal, normal, and uniform, to define the marginal distribution of product valuations; we specify
3 correlation structures: negative, independent, and positive correlations; and we use Gaussian
copulas to build the joint distribution from the marginal distributions and make the consumer’s
valuations correlated across products with a correlation proxy ρ ∈ {−0.5, 0, 0.5}.
We consider three values for the number of products N ∈ {5, 10, 30}. To investigate the impact
of heterogeneity, we test 3 levels of heterogeneity across product valuations: “none heterogeneity”,
where the marginal distributions of valuations are identical for all products; “partial heterogeneity”,
where 40% of products share a low-value marginal distribution and the other 60% of products share
a high-value one; and “full heterogeneity”, where each product has a different marginal distribution
of valuation. We also consider the heterogeneity across products from the perspective of production
costs and potential surplus (recall that we defined Zn = Vn − cn). In particular, we investigate three
scenarios: “zero cost”, where cn ≡ 0; “high value high margin (HVHM)”, where the cost cn grows
more slowly than the valuation Vn across products, and hence a product with a higher Vn tends to
have a larger potential surplus Zn; “high value low margin (HVLM)”, where, in contrast, cn grows
faster than Vn across products, and hence a product with a higher Vn tends to have a smaller Zn.
The detail of these settings is provided in Table 2. Given the combinations of 3 heterogeneity levels,
3 cost scenarios, 5 demand distributions, 3 correlation structures, and 3 options of N, we have 405

25
Table 2 Settings of the product valuation Vn and cost cn
marginal distribution of Vn
exponential an exponential distribution with mean E[Vn]
logit a gumble distribution with scale σ = 0.25 and location E[Vn] − 0.577σ
lognormal a lognormal distribution with log-variance σ2 = 0.25 and log-mean log E[Vn] − 0.5σ2
normal a normal distribution with variance σ2 = 0.25 and mean E[Vn]
uniform an uniform distribution in [ E[Vn] − 1, E[Vn] + 1]
mean of Vn production cost cn product
heterogeneity E[Vn] zero cost HVHM HVLM index range
none 1 0 0 .8 0 .1 + 1.5(n−1)
N −1 n ∈ N
partial 1 0 0 .8 0 .1 + 1.5(n−1)
N −1 n = 1, . . . , N1 = 0.4N
5 0 4 .4 4 .1 + 1.5(n−1−N1)
N −1−N1
n = N1 + 1, . . . , N
full 1 + 9(n−1)
N −1 0 0 .8 + 8.6(n−1)
N −1 0.1 + 10.5(n−1)
N −1 n ∈ N
Notes. The marginal distribution of production valuation Vn is parameterized by its mean E[Vn], and becomes more
varied across products as the heterogeneity increases. The cost cn is deterministic. “HVHM” and “HVLM” are
abbreviations for “high value high margin” and “high value low margin”, respectively.
setups. For each setup, we generate five problem instances, and then we have 2,025 instances in
total (675 instances for each value of N).
When generating problem instances, Chu et al. (2011) discretize the parameter space of valuation
distribution and generate 220 instances on a grid for each distribution family. It is infeasible for
us to choose parameters over a grid because we consider a larger set of products (e.g., N = 30).
More importantly, Chu et al. (2011) mainly consider zero and identical costs, in which case BSP
performs closely to the optimal scheme MB. Thus, there is little room for improvement in their
settings. In this section, we are interested in examining the performance of CPBSD in the presence
of heterogeneity among production valuations and costs, which is identified as the main source
of inefficiency of BSP (see Abdallah et al. 2021), and choose representative parameters listed in
Table 2. In addition to the above experimental design with fixed parameters, we also evaluate
CPBSD by repeating the numerical experiments from Ma and Simchi-Levi (2021) where instances
are generated using randomized parameters. For a comprehensive comparison, we report the results
in Appendix F.
For each instance, we draw product valuations forK = 50 customers independently from the joint
distribution when N = 5, and we choose K = 100 for N ≥ 10. We solve each bundling mechanism
using the K customer valuations. This is referred to as the in-sample test. We also perform an
out-of-sample test by applying the price scheme computed from the in-sample test to another set
of 5, 000 customer valuations, which are drawn independently from the same joint distribution.
All bundling mechanisms are solved for N = 5. We use CPBSD to denote the result solved from
(CPBSD-MILP), and CPBSD-A to denote that from the approximation (CPBSD-A). For comparison,

26
we solve CP, PB, BSP, PBDC, and MB using the formulations included in Appendix C. Note
that we only solve CP, PB, BSP, PBDC, and CPBSD-A for N ≥ 10 with K = 100 due to the high
computational costs for other mechanisms. We compute our MILPs using Gurobi 9.5.0 running on a
laptop with an Intel(R) Core i5-1135G7 CPU (2.42 GHz) and 16GB RAM, and we impose a solving-
time limit of 300/600/1200 seconds for each optimization problem for N=5/10/30, respectively.
Overall Performance. We first examine the overall profit performances of all bundling mech-
anisms for N = 5. Following Chu et al. (2011), in Figure 6, we display the profit of a pricing policy
relative to BSP. That is, for each instance, we divide the in-sample (out-of-sample) profit of a
pricing scheme by that of BSP (hence BSP itself is normalized to 1).
CP PB PBDC BCBCPBSD     CPBSD-A     MB
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0 Mean
Median
BSP
In-sample
Out-of-sample
(a) all schemes N = 5
exponential logit  lognormal    normaluniform
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0 (b) CPBSD by distribution N = 5
zero positive negative
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0 (c) CPBSD by correlation N = 5
Notes. Figure 6(a) reports the performance of all schemes over 675 instances of N = 5. Figure 6(b) reports CPBSD
across 5 distribution types (135 instances for each type). Figure 6(c) reports CPBSD across 3 correlation structures
(225 instances for each structure). Each box plot displays the in-sample (light bar) and out-of-sample (dark bar)
profits relative to BSP with the mean (dashed line), median (solid line), 2.5%, 25%, 75%, and 97.5% quantiles.
Figure 6 Profit comparisons of bundling mechanisms relative to BSP for N = 5
We first examine Figure 6(a). In terms of the in-sample performance, we replicate the observation
in Chu et al. (2011) that BSP is always better than PB, and better than CP in a large portion
of instances. Compared to BSP, CPBSD improves the average profit by 29.4% and reduces more
than half of the gap to MB. We replicate the finding in Ma and Simchi-Levi (2021) as well that
PBDC can outperform BSP in a majority of instances, and we find that CPBSD outperforms PBDC
by 12.9% in average. We also consider a natural enhancement of BSP which allows the seller to
pick the better one between CP and BSP (denoted as BCB in the figure), and we find that CPBSD
still outperforms max {CP, BSP} by 9.9%. The above in-sample results validate Proposition 1 that
CPBSD subsumes these bundling mechanisms as special cases.
Examining our out-of-sample results, we find thatCPBSD achieves an average profit 23.7% higher
than BSP. CPBSD and PBDC perform comparably and both outperform MB, largely due to the
overfitting of in-sample valuations under MB.

27
From Figures 6(b) and 6(c), we observe that the improvement of CPBSD to BSP is robust across
different distributions and different correlation structures, moreover, CPBSD performs well under
positive correlation, which is generally known to hurt bundling benefits in the literature. Overall,
CPBSD demonstrates superior performance in improving a firm’s profitability. We also note that
CPBSD-A solved using the approximation algorithm performs very closely to CPBSD.
The Impact of Product Cost and Heterogeneity. In Table 3, we divide 675 instances of
N = 5 into 9 categories according to the scenario of production cost/potential surplus and the level
of valuation heterogeneity. (The corresponding box-plot figures are provided in Appendix E.1.) As
the focus of our experimental design, we next examine the pattern of profit performance across
these categories.
Table 3 Categorized profit comparisons of bundling mechanisms relative to BSP for N = 5
category median of relative profit performance
cost heterogeneity CP PB BSP max{CP, BSP} PBDC CPBSD CPBSD-A MB
zero cost none in-s 0.78 0.99 1.00 1.00 0.99 1.02 1.00 1.03
out-s 0.79 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 0.98 1.00 0.97
partial in-s 0.88 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.01 1.00 1.01
out-s 0.89 1.01 1.00 1.00 1.01 0.99 1.00 0.98
full in-s 0.92 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
out-s 0.91 1.01 1.00 1.00 1.01 0.99 1.00 0.98
positive cost none in-s 0.90 0.72 1.00 1.00 0.91 1.06 1.01 1.17
HVHM out-s 0.83 0.76 1.00 1.00 0.94 0.96 1.00 0.93
partial in-s 0.93 0.85 1.00 1.00 0.97 1.08 1.02 1.16
out-s 0.96 0.89 1.00 1.00 1.02 1.01 1.04 1.00
full in-s 0.94 0.82 1.00 1.00 0.98 1.14 1.06 1.21
out-s 0.98 0.91 1.00 1.00 1.09 1.07 1.10 1.05
positive cost none in-s 1.12 0.62 1.00 1.12 1.17 1.38 1.33 1.41
HVLM out-s 1.26 0.68 1.00 1.26 1.34 1.38 1.38 1.30
partial in-s 1.38 0.69 1.00 1.38 1.38 1.63 1.48 1.67
out-s 1.43 0.83 1.00 1.43 1.59 1.56 1.62 1.61
full in-s 1.63 0.96 1.00 1.63 1.67 1.96 1.81 2.04
out-s 1.63 1.00 1.00 1.63 1.75 1.81 1.83 1.74
Notes. The 675 instances of N = 5 are divided evenly into 9 categories according to the scenario of production
cost/potential surplus and the degree of valuation heterogeneity. We report the median profit for in-sample (in-s) and
out-of-sample (out-s) tests over the 75 instances for each category.
Zero Cost. The first segment of Table 3 reports results from instances of zero production cost.
Through these outcomes, we observe that PB, BSP, PBDC, and CPBSD yield very similar profit,
which is significantly higher than that of CP and close to that of MB across the degrees of valuation
heterogeneity. Our finding implies that, under zero costs, the benefit of bundling is significant,
whereas the actual format of bundling matters less. This finding corroborates the result in Bakos
and Brynjolfsson (1999) that PB approximates the optimal profit when production cost is zero.

28
Positive Cost. As shown in the second and third segment of Table 3, under positive production
costs, CPBSD outperforms BSP and PBDC, and closely follows MB. In contrast, PB significantly
underperforms the rest. We also note that the absolute amount of the profit difference between
CPBSD and BSP enlarges as the cost level increases.
Product Heterogeneity. Since PB and BSP largely ignore the differences among products in the
pricing scheme, their performance may deteriorate when products are highly differentiated. From
the perspective of heterogeneity among product valuations, we indeed observe that, under positive
cost, the relative performance of CPBSD to BSP increases substantially as the marginal distri-
butions of valuations become more varied across products. Regarding the heterogeneity among
production costs, Abdallah et al. (2021) identify it as the main source of inefficiency of BSP. Based
on their findings, we provide additional insights as below: Under BSP, a customer prefers products
with high valuation Vn; however, this purchasing preference does not benefit a firm’s profitability
if the highly valued products are associated with high costs cn. More precisely, in addition to the
absolute cost level, the relation between Vn and Vn − cn (i.e., the potential surplus Zn), is also
critical for the performance of bundling. In the third segment of Table 3, where the ranking of Zn
across products is inverse to that of Vn (HVLM), we clearly observe that BSP becomes less prof-
itable and even underperforms CP, because the highly valued products sold under BSP yield very
little profit. In contrast, by setting component prices, CPBSD rearranges a customer’s purchasing
preference according to Vn − pn, which can be tuned to keep with the ranking of Zn. Therefore,
CPBSD tends to sell products with high potential surplus. As we see, CPBSD improves the in-
sample (out-of-sample) average profit by 9.7% (1.6%) over BSP in the HVHM scenario, and this
improvement significantly amplifies to 65.5% (58.2%) in the HVLM scenario.
We note that PBDC performs similarly to BSP in the HVHM scenario and outperform BSP
in the HVLM scenario. We also note that max {CP, BSP} improves the inefficiency of BSP under
heterogeneous costs, particularly in the HVLM scenario. Comparing to PBDC and max{CP, BSP},
we find that CPBSD can still substantially improve profits in both scenarios in the in-sample data.
It is worth noticing that PBDC performs very well in the out-of-sample data, similar to CPBSD.
Combining these observations, we can see that CPBSD demonstrates superior performance in
contrast to other bundling mechanisms. The benefit of using CPBSD is most pronounced when
production costs are expensive and the products are highly differentiated.
When designing our experiments, we thought the possibility that a firm may remove selling
products of high valuation but low potential surplus, and hence the the HVLM scenario might be
less common in practice. Whereas, this scenario may arise when customers have different tastes.
We remark our test of this scenario by demonstrating whereby BSP becomes severely inefficient
and CPBSD can remedy.

29
Performance of the Approximation Algorithm. In Figure 7, we report the overall profit for
large-scale problem instances of N = 30, and we observe a similar pattern as shown in Figure 6 that
CPBSD-A robustly outperforms PB, BSP, and PBDC, across different distributions and correlations.
CP PB PBDC BCB CPBSD-A
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0 Mean
Median
BSP
In-sample
Out-of-sample
(a) all schemes N = 30
exponential logit  lognormal    normaluniform
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0 (b) CPBSD-A by distribution N = 30
zero positive negative
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0 (c) CPBSD-A by correlation N = 30
Notes. Figure 7(a) reports the performance of all schemes over 675 instances of N = 30. Figure 7(b) reports CPBSD-A
across 5 distribution types (135 instances for each type). Figure 7(c) reports CPBSD-A across 3 correlation structures
(225 instances for each structure). Each box plot displays the in-sample (light bar) and out-of-sample (dark bar)
profits relative to BSP with the mean (dashed line), median (solid line), 2.5%, 25%, 75%, and 97.5% quantiles.
Figure 7 Profit comparisons of bundling mechanisms relative to BSP for N = 30
For the categorized profit comparisons for N = 30 shown in Table 4, we observe the same pattern
as N = 5. Specifically,PB, BSP, PBDC, and CPBSD-A are almost identical under zero cost; CPBSD-
A outperforms other schemes when costs are positive; and the relative performance of CPBSD-A
to BSP (or PBDC) increases as products become more heterogeneous. As displayed in the second
(third) segment of Table 4, CPBSD-A improves the in-sample average profit by 5.5% (57.4%) over
BSP in the scenario of HVHM (HVLM). Notably, the out-of-sample improvement ofCPBSD-A over
BSP is even larger, which is 7.8% and 61.3% in the two scenarios, respectively.
When solving (CPBSD-A), we preset the preference ranking according to the descending order of
vkn − cn. This specification is partially inspired by our findings in Section 4 that the markup policy
with such ranking achieves asymptotically optimal profit, and also follows the earlier discussion
that it is CPBSD’s advantage to induce customers to purchase products with high potential surplus.
Combing observations from our experiments, we show that ( CPBSD-A) could serve as a good
surrogate of CPBSD when it is computational intensive to solve ( CPBSD-MILP) optimally.
6.2. Asymptotic Performance
In this section, we compare the asymptotic performance of CPBSD to PB and BSP for selling a
very large number of products. We omit the performance of PBDC because it has similar asymp-
totic behavior as CPBSD as mentioned in Section 4.2. Following the setting described in Section

30
Table 4 Categorized profit comparisons of bundling mechanisms relative to BSP for N = 30
category median of relative profit performance
cost heterogeneity CP PB BSP max{CP, BSP} PBDC CPBSD-A
zero cost none in-s 0.65 0.99 1.00 1.00 0.99 1.00
out-s 0.63 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
partial in-s 0.82 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
out-s 0.83 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
full in-s 0.86 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
out-s 0.86 1.01 1.00 1.00 1.01 1.00
positive cost none in-s 0.67 0.70 1.00 1.00 0.96 1.00
HVHM out-s 0.62 0.70 1.00 1.00 0.99 1.00
partial in-s 0.83 0.82 1.00 1.00 0.99 1.04
out-s 0.75 0.86 1.00 1.00 1.05 1.07
full in-s 0.87 0.89 1.00 1.00 1.04 1.13
out-s 0.83 0.95 1.00 1.00 1.14 1.17
positive cost none in-s 0.97 0.61 1.00 1.00 1.22 1.33
HVLM out-s 0.94 0.64 1.00 1.00 1.26 1.35
partial in-s 1.12 0.73 1.00 1.12 1.33 1.51
out-s 1.12 0.78 1.00 1.12 1.44 1.57
full in-s 1.26 0.97 1.00 1.26 1.76 1.89
out-s 1.53 1.02 1.00 1.53 1.91 1.92
Notes. The 675 instances of N = 30 are divided evenly into 9 categories according to the scenario of production
cost/potential surplus and the degree of valuation heterogeneity. We report the median profit for in-sample (in-s) and
out-of-sample (out-s) tests over the 75 instances for each category.
6.1, we generate problem instances for N ∈ {100, 300, 1000}. When solving these very large-scale
bundling problems, we implement CPBSD using the markup policy specified in Section 4.2 with the
asymptotic optimal bundle size (6) and discounts (8) ( η = 2 maxk∈K,n∈N (vkn − cn) and ϵ = 10−3);
we compute BSP using the algorithm in Abdallah et al. (2021); and we can still calculate PB
easily using the formulation included in Appendix C. When computing these policies, we use 1,000
in-sample data points for numerical calculation, and still use 5,000 out-of-sample data points for
performance evaluation.
Figure 8 reports the out-of-sample performance of PB, BSP, and CPBSD. We display the profit
of a pricing policy relative to P
k∈K
P
n∈N (vkn − cn)+, i.e, the profit under PPD. We find that,
as the number of products grows, the profit obtained by CPBSD converges to PPD when product
valuations have a zero or negative correlation structure. (Note that the correlation across products
generated by Gaussian copulas with a negative correlation structure approaches zero as N → ∞.)
In contrast, when the products exhibit positive correlation, CPBSD may not converge to PPD, yet
still outperforms other alternatives. This confirms our Assumption 1 that a sufficient mixing in the
random valuations (potential surplus) is critical for CPBSD to achieve asymptotic optimality.
In Table 5, again, we find the similar pattern for the relative performance of CPBSD to PB and
BSP to that observed in Tables 3 and 4. As shown in the first segment of Table 5, under zero costs,

31
(a) zero and negative correlation
 (b) positive correlation
 (c) CPBSD by different distributions
Notes. Figure 8(a) report results from zero and negative correlated instances, Figure 8(b) reports results from positive
correlated instances, and comparisons are across the number of products N along the horizontal axis. Figure 8(c)
reports CPBSD across 5 distribution types for N = 1, 000. Each box plot displays the out-of-sample profits relative to
PPD with the mean (dashed line), median (solid line), 2.5%, 25%, 75%, and 97.5% quantiles.
Figure 8 Profit comparisons of bundling mechanisms relative to PPD in large-scale problems
CPBSD, PB, and BSP performs almost identically and converges to PPD. Abdallah et al. (2021)
show that BSP can achieve asymptotic optimality if the non-zero production cost is a constant.
This result is verified in the first row of the second segment in Table 5, where both CPBSD and
BSP converge to PPD. In other rows, as the heterogeneity among valuations increases, we find that
CPBSD performs a lot better than BSP and converges to PPD quickly. In contrast, BSP generally
cannot be asymptotically optimal under these circumstances, especially in the HVLM scenario.
Table 5 Categorized profit comparisons of bundling mechanisms relative to PPD in large-scale problems
category PB BSP CPBSD
cost heterogeneity N : 100 300 1000 N : 100 300 1000 N : 100 300 1000
zero cost none 0.91 0.94 0.97 0.91 0.94 0.97 0.91 0.94 0.97
partial 0.95 0.97 0.98 0.95 0.97 0.98 0.95 0.97 0.98
full 0.97 0.98 0.99 0.97 0.98 0.99 0.97 0.98 0.99
positive cost none 0.45 0.50 0.55 0.77 0.85 0.91 0.77 0.85 0.91
HVHM partial 0.65 0.72 0.77 0.76 0.83 0.88 0.81 0.88 0.93
full 0.63 0.69 0.74 0.65 0.73 0.79 0.80 0.87 0.92
positive cost none 0.29 0.33 0.36 0.62 0.69 0.75 0.80 0.87 0.92
HVLM partial 0.24 0.28 0.32 0.48 0.52 0.55 0.79 0.86 0.92
full 0.23 0.28 0.32 0.40 0.44 0.45 0.78 0.86 0.92
Notes. For each N ∈ {100, 300, 1000}, the 450 instances of zero and negative correlations are divided evenly into 9
categories according to the scenario of production cost/potential surplus and the degree of valuation heterogeneity.
We report the median of out-of-sample profit performance relative to PPD over the 50 instances for each category.
7. Conclusion
In this study, we propose a bundling mechanism CPBSD that is commonly seen in practice. Our
analysis shows that CPBSD is conceptually simple and subsumes CP, PB, BSP, PBDC, and TPT

32
as special cases. We further find that CPBSD attains the optimal profit asymptotically for a large
number of products under a general condition. In addition, we propose an MILP formulation
to solve the optimal pricing scheme of CPBSD, as well as an approximation algorithm to tackle
large-scale problems. Examining the comparative performance of our proposed mechanism, we
find that CPBSD yields superior profits among the bundling mechanisms and is efficiently solved,
making it an attractive mechanism for real-world applications. Our study opens a number of
research directions on CPBSD and other possible simple bundle pricing mechanisms, including
asymptotic/non-asymptotic theoretical analyses, a weaker requirement on correlation structures
for asymptotic optimality, and algorithms for problems with even larger sizes.
References
Abdallah T (2019) On the benefit (or cost) of large-scale bundling. Production and Operations Management
28(4):955–969.
Abdallah T, Asadpour A, Reed J (2021) Large-scale bundle-size pricing: A theoretical analysis. Operations
Research 69(4):1158–1185.
Adams WJ, Yellen JL (1976) Commodity bundling and the burden of monopoly. The Quarterly Journal of
Economics 90(3):475–498.
Armstrong M (1999) Price discrimination by a many-product firm. Review of Economic Studies 66(1):151–
168.
Babaioff M, Immorlica N, Lucier B, Weinberg SM (2014) A simple and approximately optimal mechanism
for an additive buyer. 2014 IEEE 55th Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer Science , 21–30
(IEEE).
Bakos Y, Brynjolfsson E (1999) Bundling information goods: Pricing, profits, and efficiency. Management
science 45(12):1613–1630.
Bhargava HK (2013) Mixed bundling of two independently valued goods. Management Science 59(9):2170–
2185.
Billingsley P (1999) Convergence of Probability Measures (John Wiley and Sons, New York).
Cai Y, Devanur NR, Weinberg SM (2019) A duality-based unified approach to bayesian mechanism design.
SIAM Journal on Computing 50(3):STOC16–160–STOC16–200.
Chen H, Hu M, Perakis G (2022) Distribution-free pricing.Manufacturing & Service Operations Management
24(4):1939–1958.
Chen N, Elmachtoub AN, Hamilton ML, Lei X (2021) Loot box pricing and design. Management Science
67(8):4809–4825.
Chu CS, Leslie P, Sorensen A (2011) Bundle-size pricing as an approximation to mixed bundling. The
American Economic Review 101(1):263–303.

33
Ettl M, Harsha P, Papush A, Perakis G (2020) A data-driven approach to personalized bundle pricing and
recommendation. Manufacturing & Service Operations Management 22(3):461–480.
Fang H, Norman P (2006) To bundle or not to bundle. The RAND Journal of Economics 37(4):946–963.
Gallego G, Berbeglia G (2023) Bounds and heuristics for multiproduct pricing. Management Science .
Hanson W, Martin RK (1990) Optimal bundle pricing. Management Science 36(2):155–174.
Hart S, Nisan N (2017) Approximate revenue maximization with multiple items.Journal of Economic Theory
172:313–347.
Hitt LM, Chen Py (2005) Bundling with customer self-selection: A simple approach to bundling low-marginal-
cost goods. Management Science 51(10):1481–1493.
Ibragimov R, Walden J (2010) Optimal bundling strategies under heavy-tailed valuations. Management
Science 56(11):1963–1976.
Li X, Sun H, Teo CP (2021) Convex optimization for bundle size pricing problem. Management Science
68(2):1095–1106.
Li X, Yao ACC (2013) On revenue maximization for selling multiple independently distributed items. Pro-
ceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 110(28):11232–11237.
Ma W, Simchi-Levi D (2021) Reaping the benefits of bundling under high production costs. International
Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics , 1342–1350 (PMLR).
McAfee RP, McMillan J, Whinston MD (1989) Multiproduct monopoly, commodity bundling, and correlation
of values. The Quarterly Journal of Economics 104(2):371–383.
Schmalensee R (1984) Gaussian demand and commodity bundling. Journal of business 57:211–230.
Simchi-Levi D, Sun R, Zhang H (2022) Online learning and optimization for revenue management problems
with add-on discounts. Management Science 68(10):7402–7421.
Song JS, Xue Z (2021) Demand shaping through bundling and product configuration: A dynamic multiprod-
uct inventory-pricing model. Operations Research 69(2):525–544.
Stigler GJ (1963) United states v. loew’s inc.: A note on block-booking.The Supreme Court Review 1963:152–
157.
Sun H, Li X, Teo CP (2021) Partition and prosper: design and pricing of single bundle. Working Paper .
Van der Vaart AW (2000) Asymptotic statistics, volume 3 (Cambridge university press).
Venkatesh R, Mahajaim V (1993) A probabilistic approach to pricing a bundle of products or services.
Journal of Marketing Research 30(4):494–508.
Venkatesh R, Mahajan V (2009) The design and pricing of bundles: a review of normative guidelines and
practical approaches. Handbook of pricing research in marketing 232.

34
Wu C, Jin C, Chen YJ (2022) Managing customer search via bundling. Manufacturing & Service Operations
Management 24(4):1906–1925.
Wu CA, Yang L (2018) Bundle pricing of congested services. Working Paper .
Wu Sy, Hitt LM, Chen Py, Anandalingam G (2008) Customized bundle pricing for information goods: A
nonlinear mixed-integer programming approach. Management Science 54(3):608–622.
Xue Z, Wang Z, Ettl M (2016) Pricing personalized bundles: A new approach and an empirical study.
Manufacturing & Service Operations Management 18(1):51–68.

35
Online Appendices of
Component Pricing with a Bundle Size Discount
Appendix A: Proofs in Section 3
A.1. Proof of Proposition 1
In CPBSD, the price menu includes the component price vector ( p1, p2, . . . , pN) and the bundle size
discount vector (d1, d2, . . . , dN). Next, we show that CPBSD can replicate CP, BSP, PB, PBDC and
TPT, by specifying the price menu, respectively.
CP. Given a CP with a price pCP
n for product n, we consider the price menu of CPBSD such that
pn = pCP
n and ds = 0 for all n, s= 1, 2, . . . , N. Then, CPBSD degenerates to CP.
BSP. Given a BSP with a bundle size price vector (bBSP
1 , bBSP
2 , . . . , bBSP
N ) with bBSP
1 ≤ bBSP
2 ≤ . . .≤ bBSP
N ,
we consider the price menu of CPBSD such that p1 = p2 = . . .= pN = bBSP
N and ds = bBSP
N − bBSP
s /s ≥ 0
for s = 1, 2, . . . , N. Then, for a bundle S ⊆ N with |S| = s, one can rapidly verify that the bundle
price isP
n∈S pn − sds = bBSP
s , that is, bundles with the same size s have the same price bBSP
s . CPBSD
degenerates to BSP.
PB. Given a PB with a grand bundle price pPB, we start from BSP and let bBSP
s = pPB for all s
in BSP. Since the valuations are non-negative, all customers prefer the grand bundle than other
bundle sizes. Thus, BSP, a special case of CPBSD, degenerates to PB.
TPT. Given a TPT with fixed fee t and component prices ( pTPT
1 , . . . , pTPT
N ), we consider the price
menu of CPBSD such that pn = pTPT
n + t and sds = (s − 1)t for all n, s = 1, 2, . . . , N. Then, for a
bundle S ⊆ N with |S| = s, its price isP
n∈S pn − |S|d|S| =P
n∈S pTPT
n + st −(s −1)t =P
n∈S pTPT
n + t.
CPBSD degenerates to TPT.
PBDC. Given a PBDC with a grand bundle price pPBDC, we consider the price menu of CPBSD
such that pn = cn + pPBDC and sds = (s − 1)pPBDC +PN
n=1 cn for all n, s = 1, 2, . . . , N. Then, for a
bundle S ⊆ N with |S| = s, its price isP
n∈S pn − |S|d|S| = pPBDC −P
n /∈S cn. CPBSD becomes PBDC.
Note that PBDC is a special case of TPT where pTPT
n = cn and t = pPBDC −PN
n=1 cn. □
A.2. Proofs in Section 3.3
In this section, for simplicity, we use the mechanism name to denote the optimal profit of the
corresponding bundling mechanism in the constructed instance. We first present two technical
results which facilitate the following analysis, and then provide the main proofs.
A.2.1. Preliminaries
Lemma A.1 (An Upper Bound for TPT). Given the product valuation distribution F and
production cost c, let PB0 be the optimal pure bundling profit for products with the same valuation
distribution but zero production costs. Then, TPT ≤ PB0 + CP.

36
Proof of Lemma A.1. For TPT, suppose that the optimal entry fee and component prices are
tTPT and {pTPT
n }n∈N , respectively. Then, the optimal profit is given by
TPT =
X
S⊆N
 
tTPT +
X
n∈S
(pTPT
n − cn)
!
· P(S is chosen)
=tTPT ·
X
S⊆N
P(S is chosen) +
X
S⊆N
 X
n∈S
(pTPT
n − cn)
!
· P(S is chosen)
≤ tTPT · P
 X
n∈N
Vn ≥ tTPT
!
| {z }
term-1
+
X
S⊆N
 X
n∈S
(pTPT
n − cn)
!
· P(S is chosen)
| {z }
term-2
. (A-1)
Inequality (A-1) holds because the event P
S⊆N P(S is chosen) (a purchase is made under TPT) is
a subset of the event P
n∈N Vn ≥ tTPT (the grand bundle valuation is no less than the entry fee).
In (A-1), term-1 can be upper bounded by PB0 = supp

p · P(P
n∈N Vn ≥ p)
	
, which, by definition,
is the optimal pure bundling profit for products with the same valuations but zero costs. Next,
we show that term-2 can be upper bounded by the optimal profit under CP. Under TPT, since
tTPT ≥ 0, the probability that a bundle S is purchased can be upper bounded by
P(S is chosen) =P
 X
n∈S
Vn − pTPT
n ≥ tTPT,
X
n∈S
Vn − pTPT
n ≥
X
n∈S′
Vn − pTPT
n ∀S′ ̸= S
!
≤P
 X
n∈S
Vn − pTPT
n ≥ 0,
X
n∈S
Vn − pTPT
n ≥
X
n∈S′
Vn − pTPT
n ∀S′ ̸= S
!
.
Hence, by substituting the bound above for P(S is chosen), we can upper bound term-2 by
X
S⊆N
 X
n∈S
(pTPT
n − cn)
!
· P
 X
n∈S
Vn − pTPT
n ≥ 0,
X
n∈S
Vn − pTPT
n ≥
X
n∈S′
Vn − pTPT
n ∀S′ ̸= S
!
. (A-2)
Note that (A-2) is exactly the profit under CP with component prices {pTPT
n }n∈N , and thus (A-2)
must be no more than the optimal profit under CP.
For (A-1), we have term-1 ≤ PB0 and term-2 ≤ CP. Therefore, TPT ≤ PB0 + CP. □
In the following, it naturally assumes N ≥ 2 products for bundling.
Lemma A.2. It holds that
1
2 (log(N + 1)− 1) <
NX
k=1
√
k ·
 1√
k
− 1√
k + 1

< 1
2 (log(N) + 1) . (A-3)
Proof of Lemma A.2. For all k = 1, . . . , N, we have
√
k ·
 1√
k
− 1√
k + 1

=
√
k + 1−
√
k√
k + 1 = 1√
k + 1(
√
k + 1 +
√
k)
, and
1
2(k + 1) < 1√
k + 1(
√
k + 1 +
√
k)
< 1
2k . (A-4)

37
Moreover, we have the following two integral inequalities
NX
k=1
1
k + 1 =
 N+1X
k=1
1
k
!
− 1 ≥
Z N+2
1
1
xdx − 1 = log(N + 2)− 1 > log(N + 1)− 1. (A-5)
NX
k=1
1
k =
 N −1X
k=1
1
k + 1
!
+ 1≤
Z N
1
1
xdx + 1 = log(N) + 1. (A-6)
Combining (A-5) and (A-6) with (A-4), we obtain (A-3). This completes the proof. □
A.2.2. Main Proofs
Proof of Lemma 1 We first recall the construction of the instance I(1)
N . There are N products
with zero costs ( c1 = . . .= cN = 0). There are also a total of N categories of customers, indexed by
k = 1, ..., N, and the probability mass that a customer belongs to category k is
q(1)
k =
 1√
k − 1√k+1 , if 1 ≤ k ≤ N − 1,
1√
N , if k = N.
Within category k, each customer has a positive valuation 1√
k for each of a group of k products and
zero valuation for the other N − k products. More specifically, given that there are
 N
k

possible
combinations for choosing k items out of N products, we evenly distribute customers of category k
into
 N
k

sub-types, where each sub-type positively values a unique combination of k products. The
design of sub-types eases the profit analysis by making products “symmetric”, i.e., each product
is same valued at 1√
k by the same proportion k
N of customers in any category k = 1, ..., N.
In the following, we analyze the optimal prices and profits under CPBSD, BSP and TPT in I(1)
N .
CPBSD. Consider a price menu of CPBSD below:
pn = cn + 1 and sds = s − √s for 0 ≤ n ≤ N, 1 ≤ s ≤ N + 1. (A-7)
This price menu always satisfies the practical constraints of CPBSD defined in (3). Specifically, we
have pn = cn + 1> 0, sds = s − √s ≥ 0, sds ≥ s1ds1 + s2ds2 due to √s ≤ √s1 + √s1 for all s1, s2 ≥ 0
such that s = s1 + s2, d1 = 0, and pn − ds = cn + 1− (s − √s)/s ≥ √s/s ≥ 0. In I(1)
N , for any bundle
S ⊆ N that contains s products, since cn = 0, the bundle price under (A-7) is
X
n∈S
pn − sds = √s +
X
n∈S
cn = √s. (A-8)
Note that, in I(1)
N , the CPBSD bundle price (A-8) actually reduces to the scheme of BSP, where
the bundle price only depends on the bundle size.
Next, we analyze customers’ bundle choice under (A-7). We can show that, within any category
k = 1, ..., N, each customer will purchase a bundle of size k. Recall that a customer has a positive
valuation 1√
k for k products and zero valuation for others, and hence we have the following three
cases when a customer chooses products.

38
(a) If choosing a bundle of size k, the bundle price is
√
k, and the largest bundle value isk · 1√
k =
√
k
by including exactly the k products that the customer positively values. Hence, the customer
receives zero surplus when purchasing this bundle.
(b) If choosing a bundle of size k′ > k, the bundle price is
√
k′, and the largest bundle value is
k · 1√
k +( k′ − k) ·0 =
√
k. Hence, the customer will not purchase since the surplus is
√
k −
√
k′ <
0.
(c) If choosing a bundle of size k′ < k, the bundle price is
√
k′, and the largest bundle value is
k′ · 1√
k. Hence, the customer will not purchase since the surplus is k′
√
k −
√
k′ < k′
√
k′ −
√
k′ = 0.
To maximize the surplus, the customer prefers case (a).
Given the above bundle choice, the expected profit (over all N categories of customers) under
(A-7) can be computed, and lower bounded by applying inequality (A-3) in Lemma A.2 as below.
NX
k=1
√
k · q(1)
k =
N −1X
k=1
√
k ·
 1√
k
− 1√
k + 1

+
√
N · 1√
N
≥ 1
2 (log(N) + 1) . (A-9)
Since (A-7) is a feasible price menu for the scheme of CPBSD (and BSP), (A-9) provides a lower
bound for the optimal profit under CPBSD (and BSP). Also note that, for each customer, (A-7)
sells all positively valued products out and leaves no surplus. That says, by using (A-7) in I(1)
N ,
CPBSD (and BSP) can extract all customer surplus, and hence obtain the maximum possible profit
under any selling mechanism. To conclude, we have CPBSD(I(1)
N ) = BSP(I(1)
N ) ≥ 1
2 log(N) + 1
2.
TPT. Since all products are of zero cost in I(1)
N , we have TPT(I(1)
N ) ≤ PB(I(1)
N )+ CP(I(1)
N ) according
to Lemma A.1. Next, we upper bound PB(I(1)
N ) and CP(I(1)
N ), respectively.
• For PB, the optimal grand bundle price should be chosen from the support set of the grand
bundle valuation, which includes k · 1√
k + (N − k) · 0 =
√
k for categories k = 1, ..., N. If choosing
pPB =
√
k, only customers in categories k′ ≥ k have a grand bundle valuation
√
k′ ≥ pPB and will
buy. Then, the firm receives a profit
pPB ·
NX
k′=k
q(1)
k =
√
k ·
 N −1X
k′=k
 1√
k′
− 1√
k′ + 1

+ 1√
N
!
=
√
k · 1√
k
= 1, (A-10)
which remains same across k = 1, ..., N. It implies that PB(I(1)
N ) = 1.
• For CP, we need to compute the optimal profit of each product under its marginal value
distribution and then sum them together. Recall that each product is valued at 1√
k by the same
proportion k
N of customers in any category k = 1, ..., N. Since all products are symmetric, they
have the same optimal profit under CP. Hence, it suffices to calculate product-1. The optimal price
should be chosen from the support set of valuation, which includes 0 and 1√
k for k = 1, ..., N. Setting
pCP
1 = 0 garners zero profit due to zero cost. When choosing pCP
1 = 1√
k, we have two cases below.

39
(a) If 1 ≤ k ≤ N − 1, only in each category k′ ≤ k, a proportion k′
N of customers have a valuation
1√
k′ ≥ pCP
1 = 1√
k and will buy product-1. Hence, the probability that product-1 is purchased
can be upper bounded by
P

V1 ≥ 1√
k

=
kX
k′=1
k′
N ·
 1√
k′
− 1√
k′ + 1

=
kX
k′=1
k′
N · 1p
k′(k′ + 1)(
√
k′ +
√
k′ + 1)
= 1
N ·
kX
k′=1
√
k′
√
k′ + 1(
√
k′ +
√
k′ + 1)
< 1
N ·
kX
k′=1
1√
k′ + 1 <
√
k
N , (A-11)
where the last inequality is due to Pk
k′=1
1√
k′+1 <
R k
1
1√xdx =
√
k − 1 <
√
k for all k ≥ 1.
(b) If k = N, similarly, its purchasing probability can be upper bounded by
P

V1 ≥ 1√
N

=
N −1X
k′=1
k′
N ·
 1√
k′
− 1√
k′ + 1

+ 1√
N
<
√
N − 1
N + 1√
N
< 2√
N
. (A-12)
Then, the optimal profit of product-1 can be upper bounded by
CP(product-1) = max
1≤k≤N

pCP
1 · P

V1 ≥ 1√
k

< max
(
1√
k
·
√
k
N , 1√
N
· 2√
N
)
= 2
N . (A-13)
Now, we have CP(I(1)
N ) = N · CP(product-1) < 2. Combining with PB(I(1)
N ) = 1, we obtain
TPT(I(1)
N ) ≤ PB(I(1)
N ) +CP(I(1)
N ) < 3.
This completes the proof. □
Proof of Lemma 2 We first recall the construction of instance I(2)
N . Building on I(1)
N , we include
an additional product-0 with cost c0 = 2N 2√
N. We also introduce a new customer category-0,
which contains two sub-types denoted by type-(0,1) and type-(0,2) with probability mass 1
N 3 and
1
N 2 , respectively. Customers in type-(0 , 1) and type-(0 , 2) value product-0 at c0 + 1 = 2N 2√
N + 1
and
√
N, respectively, and they have zero valuation for all other products. The original customers
in categories k = 1, .., N from I(1)
N have zero valuation for product-0, and their probability mass
shrinks proportionally by a factor of 1 − 1
N 2 − 1
N 3 .
In the following, we analyze the optimal prices and profits under CPBSD, BSP and TPT in I(2)
N .
We focus on the customers’ purchasing decision in the newly added category-0, where customers
will only consider purchasing product-0 because they have zero valuation for other products.

40
CPBSD. Recall the price menu of CPBSD defined in (A-7):
pn = cn + 1 and sds = s − √s for 0 ≤ n ≤ N, 1 ≤ s ≤ N + 1. (A-7)
In I(2)
N , for any bundle S ⊆ N that contains s products, the bundle price under (A-7) is
X
n∈S
pn − sds = √s +
X
n∈S
cn. (A-14)
Next, we analyze customers’ bundle choice under (A-7), and we have the following three cases
(a) Customers in category-0 will only consider purchasing product-0 because they have zero val-
uation for other products and the bundle price increases with size. The bundle price (A-14)
of a single product-0 is 1 + c0. Customers in type-(0,1) value product-0 at 1 + c0, hence they
buy product-0 and receive zero surplus. Then, the expected profit from these customers is
(1 +c0 − c0) · 1
N 3 = 1
N 3 .
In contrast, customers in type-(0,2) do not buy anything, because their valuation on product-0
is lower than the price, i.e.,
√
N < 1 +c0 = 2N 2√
N + 1.
(b) For original customers from I(1)
N (categories k = 1, .., N), their bundle choices remain the
same as the analysis in Lemma 1, i.e, choosing the k positively valued products, because (i)
the bundle price (A-14) is still √s when applying to original products with cn = 0; and (ii)
customers do not include product-0 in their purchased bundle due to its zero valuation and
the increasing bundle price with size. Then, the expected profit from these customers can be
calculated and lower bounded by shrinking (A-9) with a factor 1 − 1
N 2 − 1
N 3 .
Since (A-7) is a feasible CPBSD price menu, it provides a lower bound for the optimal profit
under CPBSD. Also note that, by using (A-7) in I(2)
N , CPBSD can still extract all surplus from
the original customers of I(1)
N , and only sell the high-cost product-0 to the profitable customers of
type-(0,1) leaving no surplus as well. Therefore, CPBSD still obtains the maximum possible profit
under any selling mechanism. Combining the two cases above, we obtain
CPBSD(I(2)
N ) ≥ 1
N 3 +

1 − 1
N 2 − 1
N 3
 1
2 (log(N) + 1)

≥ 1
2

1 − 1
N 2 − 1
N 3

(log N + 1).
BSP. We focus on the bundle price bBSP
1 of a single product.
(a) If choosing bBSP
1 >
√
N, customers in type-(0,2) and the original customers from I(1)
N will not
buy anything, because the BSP bundle price is non-decreasing with size, and bBSP
1 is even larger
than their grand bundle valuation (customers in type-(0,2) only value product-0 at
√
N, and
customers in any category k = 1, ..., N have a grand bundle valuation k · 1√
k =
√
k). Since only
customers in type-(0,1) possibly buy, the largest profit is obtained by setting bBSP
1 = c0 + 1 at
their valuation on production-0. Then, the profit is
 
bBSP
1 − c0

· 1
N 3 = (c0 + 1− c0) · 1
N 3 = 1
N 3 .

41
(b) If choosing bBSP
1 ≤
√
N, customers in type-(0,1) and -(0,2) will always buy product-0. However,
even setting bBSP
1 =
√
N at the high level, the firm still suffers a loss from selling product-0
due to its high cost. The loss can be bounded by
 
bBSP
1 − c0

·
 1
N 3 + 1
N 2

=
√
N − 2N 2√
N

·
 1
N 3 + 1
N 2

= 1
N 2
√
N
+ 1
N
√
N
− 2√
N
− 2
√
N
= − 1√
N

2 − 1
N 2 − 1
N

− 2
√
N < −2
√
N .
The profit from the original customers in categories k = 1, ..., N can be upper bounded by
their total valuation by applying the right inequality of (A-3) in Lemma A.2 as below.
 N −1X
k=1
√
k ·
 1√
k
− 1√
k + 1

+
√
N · 1√
N
!
·

1 − 1
N 3 − 1
N 2

<
N −1X
k=1
√
k ·
 1√
k
− 1√
k + 1

+ 1< 1
2 log N + 3
2 .
Combining the above bounds for loss and profit, we always have −2
√
N + 1
2 log N + 3
2 < 0.
That says the firm will lose money if choosing bBSP
1 ≤
√
N.
Hence, the firm prefers case (a) and the optimal profit is BSP(I(2)
N ) = 1
N 3 .
TPT. The analysis for TPT(I(2)
N ) largely follows the proof of Lemma 1. According to Lemma A.1,
we have TPT(I(2)
N ) ≤ PB0(I(2)
N ) +CP(I(2)
N ).
• For PB0(I(2)
N ), assume product-0 has zero cost. The optimal grand bundle price should be
chosen from the support set of the grand bundle valuation, which includes 2 N 2√
N + 1,
√
N,
and
√
k for customers in type-(0,1), type-(0,2), and categories k = 1, ..., N, respectively.
(a) If choosing pPB0 = 2N 2√
N + 1, only customers in type-(0,1) will buy. Then, the profit is
pPB0 · 1
N 3 =

2N 2√
N + 1

· 1
N 3 = 2√
N
+ 1
N 3 .
(b) If choosing pPB0 =
√
k ≤
√
N for k = 1, ..., N, (A-10) shows that the profit is 1 for selling
a grand bundle in I(1)
N , hence the corresponding pure bundling profit from the original
customers in I(2)
N is 1 − 1
N 2 − 1
N 3 . In the meanwhile, customers in type-(0,1) and type-(0,2)
also buy the grand bundle. Then, the pure bundling profit from all customers is

1 − 1
N 2 − 1
N 3

+
√
k ·
 1
N 3 + 1
N 2

<

1 − 1
N 2 − 1
N 3

+ 2
N
√
N
.
Choosing the largest profit from the two cases above, we can upper bounded PB0(I(2)
N ) by
PB0(I(2)
N ) < max

1 − 1
N 2 − 1
N 3

+ 2
N
√
N
, 2√
N
+ 1
N 3

<

1 − 1
N 2 − 1
N 3

+ 3
N
√
N
− 1
N 3 .
(A-15)

42
• For CP(I(2)
N ), we first consider product-0, where the optimal price should be chosen from the
support set of its valuation, which includes 2 N 2√
N + 1,
√
N and 0. Note that the price can
only be larger than the cost by choosing pCP
0 = 2N 2√
N + 1 =c0 + 1, hence the profit is
 
pCP
0 − c0

· 1
N 3 = (c0 + 1− c0) · 1
N 3 = 1
N 3 .
For other products, customers in type-(0,1) and type-(0,2) do not buy. Then, the total profit
from selling them to the original customers can not exceed CP(I(1)
N )
 
1 − 1
N 2 − 1
N 3

. Adding
profits from product-0 and other products together, we have
CP(I(2)
N ) < 1
N 3 + 2·

1 − 1
N 2 − 1
N 3

. (A-16)
Hence, combining (A-15) and (A-16), TPT(I(2)
N ) can be upper bounded by
TPT(I(2)
N ) < PB0(I(2)
N ) +CP(I(2)
N ) < 3

1 − 1
N 2 − 1
N 3

+ 3
N
√
N
. (A-17)
This completes the proof. □
Proof of Proposition 2 We can show that the sequence of instances I(2)
N satisfy Proposition 2 for
all N ≥ 2, because
CPBSD(I(2)
N )
max

TPT(I(2)
N ), BSP(I(2)
N )
	 ≥
1
2
 
1 − 1
N 2 − 1
N 3

(1 + 1/log N)
3
 
1 − 1
N 2 − 1
N 3

+ 3
N
√
N
· log N ≥ 1
6 log N.
□

43
Appendix B: Proofs in Section 4 and Section 5
B.1. Proof of Lemma 3
Recall that τ is the permutation function which returns the order statistic corresponding to the
elements of UN. The result in Section 21 of Van der Vaart (2000) shows that Zτ(N −n) = F−1
Z,N(1 − q)
for q ∈
  N −n−1
N , N −n
N

, where F−1
Z,N is the empirical quantile function. Thus, by the definition of
¯WN(t) (i.e., the normalized social welfare), we have that, for any t ∈ [0, 1],
¯WN(t) = 1
N WN(⌊N t⌋) = 1
N
⌊N t⌋−1X
n=0
Zτ(N −n) = 1
N
⌊N t⌋−1X
n=0
F−1
Z,N(1 − qn) =
Z t
0
F−1
Z,N(1 − q)dq
where the second last equality holds for any qn ∈
  N −n−1
N , N −n
N

and n = 1, ..., N.
Let F −1
Z (q) ≜ inf{z ≥ 0 : FZ(z) ≥ q}. Assumption 1 gives that
1
N
NX
n=1
Zn ⇒
Z +∞
−∞
zdFZ(z) =
Z 1
0
F −1
Z (1 − q)dq as N → ∞.
Hence, for t = 1, we have
¯WN(1) =
NX
n=1
Zn/N ⇒
Z 1
0
F −1
Z (1 − q)dq = ¯W (1) as N → ∞. (B-18)
For 0 < t ≤ 1, we have
 ¯WN(1) − ¯WN(t) −
Z 1
t
F −1
Z (1 − q)dq
 ≤

Z 1
t
 
F−1
Z,N(1 − q) − F −1
Z (1 − q)

dq

≤
Z 1
t
F−1
Z,N(1 − q) − F −1
Z (1 − q)
 dq
By Lemma 21.2 in Van der Vaart (2000) and Assumption 1, we can obtain F−1
Z,N(t) ⇒ F −1
Z (t) for
any continuous point t of F −1
Z (t), for 0 < t < 1. Moreover, F −1
Z has at most a countable number of
discontinuities because it is a non-decreasing function. Therefore, as N → ∞, we have
 ¯WN(1) − ¯WN(t) −
Z 1
t
F −1
Z (1 − q)dq
 ⇒ 0,
which implies that, for 0 < t ≤ 1,
¯WN(1) − ¯WN(t) ⇒
Z 1
t
F −1
Z (1 − q)dq. (B-19)
Combining (B-18) and (B-19), we obtain that ¯WN(t) ⇒ ¯W (t) for any t ∈ [0, 1]. This completes the
proof. □

44
B.2. Proof of Theorem 1
For Part 1., we examine ¯RN(t). By Assumption 1, Zn is uniformly bounded, and hence we assume
Zn ∈ [zl, zu] for all n. Let η > zu, then, for any 0 ≤ t ≤ 1, we have
¯RN(t) = 1
N
⌊N t⌋−1X
k=0
(Zτ(N −n) − η) ≤ ⌊N t⌋
N (zu − η) < 0;
for any 0 ≤ t < t′ ≤ 1, denoting s = ⌊N t⌋ and s′ = ⌊N t′⌋, we also have
¯RN(t′) − ¯RN(t) = 1
N
s′−1X
n=0
(Zτ(N −n) − η) − 1
N
s−1X
n=0
(Zτ(N −n) − η)
= 1
N


s′−1X
n=s
Zτ(N −k) − (s′ − s)η


≤ 1
N
 
(s′ − s) zu − (s′ − s) η

= 1
N (s′ − s) (zu − η) < 0.
Therefore, we find that ¯RN(t) is negative and decreasing in t ∈ [0, 1] if η > zu. In the rest, let η > zu.
Next, we examine a customer’s bundle choice under (p∗
N , d∗
N). The surplus obtained by a customer
from purchasing a bundle of size s is
gN(s) ≜ RN(s) +sds = N ¯RN (s/N) + sds.
As N → ∞, we examine gN(s) for each discount region specified in the step function (8). First,
for s < s ∗ (i.e., m = 0 in (8)), we have gN(s) = N ¯RN(t) < 0 as showing above, where s = ⌊N t⌋.
Next, for s = s∗, we have sds = N ϵ − N ¯R(t∗), and therefore, lim N →∞ gN(s)/N = ϵ > 0 with prob-
ability one, i.e., a bundle of size s∗ definitely yields a positive surplus for a consumer. For any
s ∈ (ms∗, (m + 1)s∗) and m = 1, 2, . . ., we havegN(s) ≤ gN(ms∗). It is because ¯RN(s/N) is a decreas-
ing function and sds remains constant for s in that region. Finally, to show that a customer will
purchase a bundle of size s∗, we just need to ensure that a customer will not choose bundle sizes
ms∗ for any m ≥ 2, when s∗ ≤ N/2, i.e., t∗ ≤ 1/2. Given ¯RN(t) = ¯WN(t) − tη, we have that
lim
N →∞
gN(ms∗)/N = lim
N →∞

¯WN(ms∗/N) − ms∗η/N − m ¯R(t∗) +mϵ

= ¯W (mt∗) − m ¯W (t∗) +mϵ
< ¯W (t∗) − m ¯W (t∗) +m1
2
¯W (t∗) ≤ 0.
The inequality holds because t∗ maximizes ¯W (t) and ϵ < ¯W (t∗)/2. This completes the proof of the
first statement.
For Part 2., we first examine the non-negative constraint, i.e.,pn, ds ≥ 0. Notice that pn = cn + η >
0 and ds = m(N ϵ − N ¯R(t∗))/s > 0 since ¯R(t∗) < 0 for η > z u. The non-negative constraint holds.

45
Also, the discount definition given by (8) tells that sds = ⌊s/s∗⌋ s∗ds∗; thus, for two bundle sizes s1
and s2, we have
s1ds1 + s2ds2 = (⌊s1/s∗⌋ + ⌊s2/s∗⌋) s∗ds∗ ≤ ⌊(s1 + s2)/s∗⌋ s∗ds∗ = (s1 + s2)ds1+s2.
Besides, (8) also gives ds = s−1 ⌊s/s∗⌋
 
N ϵ− N ¯R(t∗)

, and hence we have, for any N ∈ N ,
pn − ds =cn + η − s−1 ⌊s/s∗⌋ N
 
ϵ − ¯W (t∗) + η

≥ cn + η − N/s∗ ·
 
ϵ − ¯W (t∗) + t∗η

≥cn + η − 1/t∗ ·
 
ϵ − ¯W (t∗) + t∗η

= cn + 1/t∗ ·
  ¯W (t∗) − ϵ

≥ 0,
where the first inequality is due to ⌊x⌋ ≤ x for any real number x, the second inequality is because
s∗ = ⌊N t∗⌋ ≤ N t∗, and the last inequality is due to 0 < ϵ < ¯W (t∗)/2. This completes the proof of
the second statement.
Next we show Part 3. By Part 2., we can obtain that, as N → ∞, P{ζ(VN , p∗
N , d∗
N) = s∗} → 1
and P{ζ(VN , p∗
N , d∗
N) = s, ∀s ̸= s∗} → 0. Therefore,
lim
N →∞
1
N E [θ(p∗
N , d∗
N)] = lim
N →∞
NX
s=0
E

¯PN(s) − sds
N − ¯CN(s)

× 1 {ζ(VN , p∗
N , d∗
N) = s}

= lim
N →∞
NX
s=0
 sη
N − sds
N

P {ζ(VN , p∗
N , d∗
N) = s}
= ¯R(t∗) +t∗η − ϵ = ¯W (t∗) − ϵ.
(B-20)
This completes the proof. □
B.3. Proof of Theorem 2
Notice that
1
N
NX
n=1
E[(Vn − cn)+] = E
"
1
N
NX
n=1
Z+
n
#
= E
"
1
N
NX
n=1
Z+
τ(N −n)
#
= E
Z 1
0
 
F−1
Z,N(1 − q)
+
dq

. (B-21)
By Lemma 3, we have that, as N → ∞,

Z 1
0
 
F−1
Z,N(1 − q)
+
dq −
Z 1
0
 
F −1
Z (1 − q)
+
dq
 ≤
Z 1
0
(F−1
Z,N(1 − q))+ − (F −1
Z (1 − q))+ dq
≤
Z 1
0
F−1
Z (1 − q) − F −1
Z (1 − q)
 dq ⇒ 0.
By Assumption 1, Zn is uniformly bounded, and thus
E
Z 1
0
 
F−1
Z,N(1 − q)
+
dq

⇒ E
Z 1
0
 
F −1
Z (1 − q)
+
dq

=
Z ∞
0
zdFZ(z). (B-22)
Combine (B-21) and (B-22) completes the proof. □

46
B.4. Proof of Theorem 3
In this section, we establish the finite-sample lower bound for CPBSD in two steps. The first
step is a refined version of Dvoretzky–Kiefer–Wolfowitz inequality which helps us to bound the
error probability of the empirical distribution FZ,N deviating from the FZ. To utilize Dvoret-
zky–Kiefer–Wolfowitz inequality in our setting, we present the following lemma.
Lemma B.3. By Assumption 1, we denote 0 < zu < ∞ as the uniform upper bound of Zns, and
thus zu = min{t : FZ(t) = 1} is finite. Under assumptions in Theorem 3, the following holds: for a
positive real number a,
Pr
 
sup
t∈[0,1]
| ¯RN(t) − ¯R(t)| > a
!
< exp
n
−2N (a/zu)
2
o
.
Proof of Lemma B.3: Notice that
sup
t∈[0,1]
| ¯RN(t) − ¯R(t)| = sup
t∈[0,1]

Z t
0
F−1
Z,N(1 − q) − F −1
Z (1 − q)dq

≤ sup
t∈[0,1]
Z t
0
F−1
Z,N(1 − q) − F −1
Z (1 − q)
dq =
Z 1
0
F−1
Z,N(1 − q) − F −1
Z (1 − q)
dq
=
Z 1
0
Z zu
0
1

F −1
Z (1 − q) ≤ x ≤ F−1
Z,N(1 − q)
	
dxdq +
Z 1
0
Z zu
0
1

F −1
Z (1 − q) ≥ x ≥ F−1
Z,N(1 − q)
	
dxdq.
Note that for a CDF F (·), by the definition of the inverse, we have F −1(q) ≤ x ⇐ ⇒ q ≤ F (x).
Therefore, the above expression can be further simplified as
Z 1
0
Z zu
0
1 {FZ,N(x) ≤ 1 − q ≤ FZ(x)} dxdq +
Z 1
0
Z zu
0
1 {FZ,N(x) ≥ 1 − q ≥ FZ(x)} dxdq
=
Z zu
0
Z 1
0
1 {1 − FZ,N(x) ≥ q ≥ 1 − FZ(x)} dqdx +
Z zu
0
Z 1
0
1 {1 − FZ,N(x) ≤ q ≤ 1 − FZ(x)} dqdx
=
Z zu
0
FZ,N(x) − FZ(x)
dx ≤ zu · sup
x∈R
|FZ,N(x) − FZ(x)|.
Since {Zn}N
n=1 are i.i.d. random variables, by the Dvoretzky–Kiefer–Wolfowitz inequality, we can
obtain that, for a > 0,
Pr
 
sup
t∈[0,1]
| ¯RN(t) − ¯R(t)| > a
!
≤ Pr

sup
z∈Z
|FZ,N(z) − FZ(z)| > a/zu

≤ exp
n
−2N (a/zu)
2
o
.
This completes the proof. □
B.4.1. The main proof of Theorem 3. Consider the CPBSD policy with price menu ( p∗
N , d∗
N)
such that, for n ∈ {1, 2, · · · , N} and some positive number η > zu, p∗
n = cn + η and
sd∗
s = m
 
N ϵ− N ¯R(t∗)

, for ms∗ ≤ s < (m + 1)s∗, ∀m = 0, 1, . . . ,⌊N/s∗⌋, (B-23)

47
where s∗ = ⌊N t∗⌋ and t∗ = supt∈[0,1]{t : F −1
Z (1 − t) ≥ 0}. We will choose ϵ explicitly later.
Next, we establish a lower bound for 1
N E [θ(p∗
N , d∗
N)]. In particular,
1
N E [θ(p∗
N , d∗
N)] =
NX
s=0
E
h rs
N × 1 {ζ(VN , p∗
N , d∗
N) = s}
i
=
NX
s=0
rs
N · P {ζ(VN , p∗
N , d∗
N) = s} ≥
X
s∈[s∗−δ,s∗+δ]
rs
N · P {ζ(VN , p∗
N , d∗
N) = s} , (B-24)
where rs = PN(s) − CN(s) − sds = sη − sds is the profit of selling a bundle of size s.
Step 1. Lower bound for marginal profit in the neighborhood. Notice that, for any δ > 0
and s ∈ [s∗ − δ, s∗ + δ],
rs
N = s
N η − sds
N = s
N η − m
 
ϵ − ¯R(t∗)

= s
N η + ⌊ s
s∗ ⌋
  ¯R(t∗) − ϵ

= s
N η + ⌊ s
s∗ ⌋

¯W (t∗) − s∗
N η − ϵ

≥ ⌊ s
s∗ ⌋
  ¯W (t∗) − ϵ

≥

1 − ⌊ δ
s∗ ⌋
  ¯W (t∗) − ϵ

,
where the first equality is because of Eq. (B-23), the second equality is because m = ⌊ s
s∗ ⌋, the third
equality is due to the definition of ¯R(t∗) and ¯W (t∗), the first inequality is because ⌊ s
s∗ ⌋ ≤ s
s∗ , and
the last inequality holds for ϵ < ¯W (t∗). Thus, we can obtain that, for s ∈ [s∗ − δ, s∗ + δ],
rs
N ≥

1 − ⌊ δ
s∗ ⌋
  ¯W (t∗) − ϵ

. (B-25)
Substituting Eq. (B-25) into Eq. (B-24), we have that
1
N E [θ(p∗
N , d∗
N)] ≥

1 − ⌊ δ
s∗ ⌋
  ¯W (t∗) − ϵ

· P {ζ(VN , p∗
N , d∗
N) ∈ [s∗ − δ, s∗ + δ]} . (B-26)
Next we will bound the probability term in (B-26), the probability that the consumer chooses a
bundle size in the neighborhood, from below.
Step 2. Lower bound for the probability of choosing a bundle in the neighborhood.
To bound the probability, we consider two events:
A :={at least one bundle in the neighborhood has a positive consumer surplus }
= {∃s ∈ [s∗ − δ, s∗ + δ] s.t. RN(s) +sds > 0}
B :={all bundles out of the neighborhood have a negative consumer surplus }
= {∀s /∈ [s∗ − δ, s∗ + δ] s.t. RN(s) +sds < 0}
Notice that A ∩ B implies choosing a bundle in the neighborhood. That is,
P {ζ(VN , p∗
N , d∗
N) ∈ [s∗ − δ, s∗ + δ]} ≥ Pr(A ∩ B) ≥ Pr(A) + Pr(B) − 1.
Next, we bound Pr( A) and Pr( B) from below respectively.

48
Lower bound for Pr(A). It suffices to show that the consumer surplus choosing bundle with size
s∗ is positive with high probability. In particular,
Pr(A) ≥P {RN(s∗/N) +s∗ds∗ > 0} = P

¯RN(s∗) + s∗ds∗
N > 0

=P
(
sup
s∈[s∗−δ,s∗+δ]
¯RN(s/N) − ¯R(s/N) + ¯R(s/N) + sds
N > 0
)
≥P
(
sup
s∈[s∗−δ,s∗+δ]
¯RN(s/N) − ¯R(s/N) + ¯R(s∗/N) + s∗ds∗
N > 0
)
=P
(
sup
s∈[s∗−δ,s∗+δ]
¯RN(s/N) − ¯R(s/N) +ϵ > 0
)
≥ P
(
sup
s∈[s∗−δ,s∗+δ]
| ¯RN(s/N) − ¯R(s/N)| < ϵ
)
≥P

sup
s∈N
| ¯RN(s/N) − ¯R(s/N)| < ϵ

≥ 1 − exp
(
−2N
 ϵ
zu
2)
,
where the first inequality is because the event A implies the event that the s∗ size bundle offers a
positive consumer surplus; the first equality is because of the normalization; the second inequality
is because s∗-size bundle offers the highest consumer surplus under price menu (B-23); the last
inequality is because of Lemma B.3. Thus,
Pr(A) ≥ 1 − exp
(
−2N
 ϵ
zu
2)
(B-27)
Lower bound for Pr(B). By our choice of (p∗
N , d∗
N), when s ∈ [0, s∗ − δ), the discount ds = 0. The
consumer surplus is exactly ¯RN(s), which is almost surely negative because of the large markup
η > zu. That is,
¯RN(s) = 1
N
s−1X
n=0
(Zτ(N −n) − η) ≤ s
N (zu − η) < 0.
Therefore,
Pr(B) =P

¯RN(s) + sds
N < 0, ∀s ∈ [0, s∗ − δ)

∩

¯RN(s) + sds
N < 0, ∀s ∈ (s∗ + δ, N]

=P

¯RN(s) + sds
N < 0, ∀s ∈ (s∗ + δ, N]

=P
(
sup
s∈(s∗+δ,N]
¯RN(s) − ¯R(s) +

¯R(s) + sds
N

< 0
)
. (B-28)
We next show that sups∈(s∗+δ,N] ¯R(s)+ sds/N < 2ϵ − ¯W (t∗) < 0. Notice that, for s ∈ (ms∗, (m+1) s∗)
and m = 2, 3, · · · , ⌊ N
s∗ ⌋,
¯R(s) + sds
N ≤ ¯R(ms∗) + ms∗dms∗
N = ¯R(ms∗) +m
 
ϵ − ¯R(s∗)

= ¯W (ms∗) +m
 
ϵ − ¯W (s∗)

≤ ¯W (2s∗) + 2
 
ϵ − ¯W (s∗)

< 0,

49
where the last inequality is because ¯W (ms∗) decreases in m by definition and m
 
ϵ − ¯W (s∗)

decreases in m by ϵ < ¯W (t∗). On the other hand, for s ∈ (s∗ + δ,2s∗) (we let δ < s∗), we have
¯R(s) + sds
N ≤ ¯R(s∗ + δ) + (s∗ + δ)ds∗+δ
N = ¯R(s∗ + δ) + (ϵ − ¯R(s∗)).
The inequality is because of the fact that ¯R(s) is a decreasing function and sds remains constant
in the range (see Figure 5 for an illustration). Thus, we have that
sup
s∈(s∗+δ,N]
¯R(s) + sds
N = max
 ¯R(s∗ + δ) + (ϵ − ¯R(s∗)), ¯W (2t∗) + 2
 
ϵ − ¯W (t∗)
	
.
We next choose ϵ, η and δ more specifically such that ¯R(s∗ + δ) + (ϵ − ¯R(s∗)) ≤ ¯W (2t∗) + 2(ϵ −
¯W (t∗)). In particular, we consider
ϵ < ¯W (t∗)/2, η = 2 ¯W (t∗) − ¯W (2t∗)
s∗ + zu > zu and δ = 2 ¯W (t∗) − ¯W (2t∗) − ϵ
η − zu
∈ (0, s∗).
We then have
¯R(s∗ + δ) + (ϵ − ¯R(s∗)) − ¯W (2t∗) − 2
 
ϵ − ¯W (t∗)

= ¯R(s∗ + δ) − ¯R(s∗) + 2¯W (t∗) − ¯W (2t∗) − ϵ
= − ηδ +
Z t+δ
t
F −1
Z (1 − q)dq + 2 ¯W (t∗) − ¯W (2t∗) − ϵ ≤ δ(zu − η) + 2¯W (t∗) − ¯W (2t∗) − ϵ = 0,
where the inequality follows from F −1
Z (·) ≤ zu. Thus, we can obtain that
sup
s∈(s∗+δ,N]
¯R(s) + sds
N = ¯W (2t∗) + 2
 
ϵ − ¯W (t∗)

≤ 2ϵ − ¯W (t∗) < 0 (B-29)
Therefore,
P
(
sup
s∈(s∗+δ,N]
¯RN(s) + sds
N < 0
)
=P
(
sup
s∈(s∗+δ,N]
¯RN(s) − ¯R(s) +

¯R(s) + sds
N

< 0
)
≥P
(
sup
s∈(s∗+δ,N]
¯RN(s) − ¯R(s) + 2ϵ − ¯W (t∗) < 0
)
≥P
(
sup
s∈(s∗+δ,N]
| ¯RN(s) − ¯R(s)| < ¯W (t∗) − 2ϵ
)
≥1 − exp
(
−2N
 ¯W (t∗) − 2ϵ
zu
2)
,
where the first inequality is due to Eq. (B-29), the last inequality is due to Lemma B.3. Substituting
it into (B-28), we can obtain the lower bound for Pr( B):
Pr(B) ≥ 1 − exp
(
−2N
 ¯W (t∗) − 2ϵ
zu
2)
(B-30)

50
Step 3. Lower bound for expected profit under CPBSD. Combining Eq.(B-26), Eq.(B-27)
and Eq.(B-30) together, we can obtain that
1
N E [θ(p∗
N , d∗
N)] ≥
  ¯W (t∗) − ϵ

·
 
1 − exp
(
−2N
 ϵ
zu
2)
− exp
(
−2N
 ¯W (t∗) − 2ϵ
zu
2)!
| {z }
:=1−G
Let ϵ =
¯W(t∗)
2 · ln N√
N . We have that ϵ <
¯W(t∗)
2 due to ln N <
√
N for N ≥ 1; furthermore, we can
verify that, given a constant C1 = ( ¯W(t∗))2
2z2u
, there exists N0 > 0 such that (N ln N)
−C1
< 1
32 N −1/2 ln N
and e−4C1(
√
N −ln N)2
< 1
32 N −1/2 ln N for all N > N0. Thus, for any N > N0, we can obtain that
G = exp

−( ¯W ∗)2
2z2
u
ln2 N

+ exp

−2( ¯W ∗)2
z2
u
(
√
N − ln N)2

=
 
N ln N−C1
+ e−4C1(
√
N −ln N)2
≤ 1
16 N −1/2 ln N.
Thus, the lower bound is given by
1
N E [θ(p∗
N , d∗
N)] ≥

¯W (t∗) −
¯W (t∗)
2 · N −1/2 ln N

·

1 − 1
16 N −1/2 ln N

≥ ¯W (t∗)

1 − 9
16 N −1/2 ln N

,
where the last inequality is because ¯W (t∗)(N −1/2 ln N)2 > 0. This completes the proof. □
B.5. Proof of Proposition 3
It is easy to verify the equivalence between ( BCS) and ( BCS-LP), because there always exists an
integer optimal solution to (BCS-LP). Since both (BCS-LP) and (BCS-dual) have feasible solutions,
their optimal values are equal due to the strong duality of linear programming. □
B.6. Proof of Theorem 4
Table B-1 summarizes notations used in the MILP Formulation of CPBSD.
We first show that for any (p, d) ∈ P, maximizing over other variables in (CPBSD-MILP) including
xkns, yks, wks, wk, qkns, αks and βkns yields the optimal value equal to that of ( CPBSD-sample)
using (p, d). By ( BCS-dual), constraints (9) to (11) guarantee that wk is no less than the surplus
of customer k when she is making the best bundle/product choice under the pricing scheme.
Constraints (12) to (15) enforce that for each customer k, the binary variables xkns are zero except
for at most one s ∈ S. For such s, xkns = 1 for exactly s values of n ∈ N . This is consistent with
the possible choices made by customer k. As a result, for the products in the chosen bundle of
customer k, qkns = pn − ds from constraints (16) and (17). Combined with (18), it guarantees that
wks is the surplus of customer k when she chooses a bundle of size s. Since wks ≤ 0 when s is not

51
Table B-1 Definitions of the parameters and variables
Notation Definition
Parameters
N: the number of products
K: the number of customers
vkn: the valuation of product n to customer k
cn: the cost of product n
Sets and indices
N , n : the set and the index of products, n ∈ N ≜ {1, ..., N}
K, k : the set and the index of customers, k ∈ K ≜ {1, ..., K}
S, s : the set and the index of bundle sizes offered, s ∈ S ≜ {1, ..., S}
Decision variables and intermediate variables
pn: the price of product n
ds: the discount per product for a customer purchasing a bundle of size s
xkns: one if customer k buys product n in a bundle of size s, and zero otherwise
yks: one if customer k buys a bundle of size s, and zero otherwise
wks: the surplus obtained by customer k from a bundle of size s
wk: the surplus obtained by customer k
qkns: the payment by customer k for purchasing product n in a bundle of size s
αks, βkns: dual variables
the bundle size chosen by customer k (note that xkns = 0 and qkns ≥ 0 by constraint (22)), the
equality (19) combined with the fact that wk is the upper bound of surplus ensures that customer
k must be choosing the bundle size and included products optimally. Moreover, it forces wks = 0
when customer k does not choose a bundle of size s, which in turn forces qkns = 0 for such k and s.
In this case, the objective of ( CPBSD-MILP) is precisely the total profit earned by the firm. Note
that the condition pn − ds ≥ 0 ensures the feasibility of qkns from constraints (17) and (22).
It remains to be shown that for the optimal solution to ( CPBSD-MILP), the implied pricing
policy always generates the same profit in ( CPBSD-sample) as the resulting optimal value of
(CPBSD-MILP). The proof follows the same argument as above. Thus, combining the two facts,
we have shown that the optimal solution to ( CPBSD-MILP) must also imply the optimal CPBSD
pricing policy. □
B.7. Approximation Algorithm Based on Preset Preference Rankings
While (CPBSD-MILP) allows us to solve (CPBSD-sample) optimally, the computation becomes quite
expensive as the scale of the problem grows. In particular, the embedded ( BCS) problem creates a
computational bottleneck that the bundle composition of each customer needs to be examined for
every candidate pricing scheme.
To alleviate this issue, we propose an algorithm that approximately solves ( CPBSD-sample) by
using a heuristic to determine the bundle composition. Let πk ≜ {πk1, . . . , πkN } be a permutation of
(1, . . . , N) that denotes a preset preference ranking for each customer k ∈ K. In this case, when pur-
chasing a bundle of size s, customer k simply chooses the s top-ranked products, i.e., {πk1, . . . , πks},

52
according to her ranking πk, and does not need to solve ( BCS) as a subroutine. Hence, the corre-
sponding bundle valuation vks ≜Ps
j=1 vkπkj and the bundle cost cks ≜Ps
j=1 ckπkj can be computed
in advance for all k ∈ K and s ∈ S. The optimization problem of the approximation algorithm can
now be formulated as follows.
max 1
K
X
k∈K
X
s∈S
(qks − cksyks) ( CPBSD-A)
s.t. pks =
sX
j=1
pπkj − sds, ∀k ∈ K, ∀s ∈ S, (B-31)
vkπkj − pπkj ≥ vkπk,j+1 − pπk,j+1, ∀k ∈ K, j = 1, . . . , N− 1, (B-32)
wk ≥ vks − pks, ∀k ∈ K, ∀s ∈ S,
X
s∈S
yks ≤ 1, ∀k ∈ K,
qks ≥ pks − M(1 − yks), ∀k ∈ K, ∀s ∈ S,
qks ≤ pks, ∀k ∈ K, ∀s ∈ S,
wks = vksyks − qks, ∀k ∈ K, ∀s ∈ S,
wk =
X
s∈S
wks, ∀k ∈ K,
sds ≥ s1ds1 + s2ds2, ∀s ∈ S, s 1 + s2 = s, s 1, s2 ≥ 0,
pn, pks, qks, wks, wk ≥ 0, y ks ∈ {0, 1}.
In the above formulation, for customer k’s bundle of size s, the post-discount bundle price pks
is specified in constraint (B-31), yks ∈ {0, 1} is the indicator of purchase, and qks = pksyks is the
amount customer k pays. Note that the actual preference ranking of customer k depends on the
solution of prices and thus can be different than πk. Therefore, to preserve the preset preference
ranking, we impose constraint (B-32) which ensures that customer k receives more surplus by
including product πkj rather than product πk,j+1 in her bundle.
Compared to ( CPBSD-MILP), our approximation algorithm uses preset preference rankings to
specify bundle components, and hence could remove ( BCS) and the per-product variables (i.e.,
xkns and qkns). Finally, we obtain a more compact MILP, namely (CPBSD-A), of O(KN ) variables
and constraints. We are able to solve (CPBSD-A) with as many as 30 products and 100 customers,
reaching to the computational capacity of BSP.
If the preference ranking is properly chosen, for example, when set close to the ranking yielded
by the optimal solution to ( CPBSD-MILP), it is reasonable to expect that ( CPBSD-A) achieves
a high-quality approximation. Through comprehensive experiments (see Section 6), we find that,
using a ranking in the descending order of vkn − cn, (CPBSD-A) generates almost the same amount
of profit as the optimal ( CPBSD-MILP) in a wide range of conditions.

53
Appendix C: Formulation of Benchmark Polices
• Component Pricing ( CP). The firm sets each product a separate price, i.e., pn for product
n ∈ N . The optimal price for product n must be in the set P CP
n = {vkn | ∀ k ∈ K}S{cn}, and
can be computed as following
pn = arg max
p∈PCPn
(
(p − cn)
X
k∈K
1 {vkn ≥ p}
)
, ∀n ∈ N . (CP)
The total profit yielded by ( CP) isP
n∈N (pn − cn)P
k∈K 1 {vkn ≥ pn} .
• Pure Bundling (PB). The firm sets a single price for a whole bundle which contains all products.
The production cost of this bundle isc =P
n∈N cn, and the valuation of this bundle to customer
k is vk =P
n∈N vkn. The optimal price for PB must be in the set P PB = {vk | ∀ k ∈ K}S{c},
and can be computed as following
p = arg max
p∈PPB
(
(p − c)
X
k∈K
1 {vk ≥ p}
)
. (PB)
The total profit yielded by ( PB) is ( p − c)P
k∈K 1 {vk ≥ p} .
• Mixed Bundling ( MB). Hanson and Martin (1990) propose the following MILP formulation
to MB. There are L = 2N − 1 bundles which are possibly made from N products. Let L ≜
{1, ..., L} denote the index set of bundles, and let B(l) denote the set of products which are
contained in bundle l. Let vkl =P
n∈B(l) vkn denote the valuation of bundle l to customer k
and cl =P
n∈B(l) cn denote the production cost of bundle l. Decision variables are pl which
denotes the price of bundle l set by the firm, ykl ∈ {0, 1} which is one if and only if customer
k purchases bundle l, and qkl which denotes the price paid by customer k for bundle l, i.e.,
qkl = plykl. The optimal prices for MB can be computed as following
max 1
K
X
k∈K
X
l∈L
(qkl − clykl) ( MB)
s.t. wk ≥ vkl − pl, ∀k ∈ K, ∀l ∈ L,
X
l∈L
ykl ≤ 1, ∀k ∈ K,
qkl ≥ pl − M(1 − ykl), ∀k ∈ K, ∀l ∈ L,
qkl ≤ pl, ∀k ∈ K, ∀l ∈ L,
wk =
X
l∈L
(vklykl − qkl), ∀k ∈ K,
wk ≥
X
l∈L
(vklyjl − qjl) , ∀k ∈ K, ∀j ∈ K/{k},
pl ≤
X
j∈J
pj, s.t.
[
j∈J
B(j) = B(l), ∀l ∈ L,
pl, qkl, wk ≥ 0, y kl ∈ {0, 1}.

54
Note that the last two constraints are the practical requirement similar to (3) for CPBSD.
• Bundle Size Pricing (BSP). Let vks denote customer k’s maximum valuation from a bundle of
size s, where she selects the top s products with the largest values of vkn, and let cks denote
the cost of that bundle. Decision variables are ps which denotes the price set by the firm for a
bundle of size s, yks ∈ {0, 1} which is one if and only if customer k purchases a bundle of size
s , and qks which denotes the price paid by customer k for a bundle of size s, i.e., qks = psyks.
The optimal prices for BSP can be computed from the following MILP,
max 1
K
X
k∈K
X
s∈S
(qks − cksyks) ( BSP)
s.t. wk ≥ vks − ps, ∀k ∈ K, ∀s ∈ S,
X
s∈S
yks ≤ 1, ∀k ∈ K,
qks ≥ ps − M(1 − yks), ∀k ∈ K, ∀s ∈ S,
qks ≤ ps, ∀k ∈ K, ∀s ∈ S,
wks = rksyks − qks, ∀k ∈ K, ∀s ∈ S,
wk =
X
s∈S
wks, ∀k ∈ K,
wk ≥
X
s∈S
(vksyjs − qjs), ∀k ∈ K, ∀j ∈ K/{k},
ps ≤ ps1 + ps2, ∀s ∈ S, s 1 + s2 = s, s 1, s2 ≥ 0,
ps1 ≤ ps2, ∀s1, s2 ∈ S, s 1 < s2,
ps, qks, wks, wk ≥ 0, y ks ∈ {0, 1}.
Note that the last three constraints are the practical requirement similar to (3) for CPBSD.

55
Appendix D: Convex Optimization for CPBSD with Constant Markups
The mixed integer programming formulation is not scalable when the number of products is large.
In CPBSD, if the markup is constant, i.e., pn = cn + z. Then the problem can be written as:
max
d,z
X
s∈S
[(zs − ds) qs] (CPBSD-CM)
s.t. qs = P
 
s = arg max
t∈S∪{0}
ws(V ) − zs + ds
!
, ∀s ∈ S,
where ws(V ) =Ps
i=1(V(i) − c(i)) is the order statistics of V − c, i.e.,
V(1) − c(1) ≥ V(2) − c(2) ≥ · · · ≥V(N) − c(N).
It is clear that this problem is equivalent to a BSP problem where the customer valuation is equal
to V − c, the cost is set to zero, and the bundle size price corresponds to zs − ds. Using the
technique developed in Li et al. (2021), we can extract the first and second moments of ws(V ) and
approximately calculate z and d. More precisely, the following procedure can be applied:
1. Generate samples V , and estimate the first and second moments of w(V ) =
(w1(V ), w2(V ), · · · , wS(V )). Denote µ = E [w(V )], Σ = Cov(w(V )).
2. Solve the following program:
max
q∈∆
qT µ + 1
2 qT diag
 
Σ1/2(T (q))−1/2Σ1/2
− qTΣ1/2(T (q))−1/2Σ1/2q
where ∆ ≜ {x|eT x ≤ 1, xs ≥ 0, ∀s ∈ S}, T (q) =Σ1/2 (Diag(x) − xxT ) Σ1/2. Due to Theorem
2 in Li et al. (2021), this is a convex optimization program and can be solved very efficiently
even if N is large.
3. Let
p = µ + 1
2diag
 
Σ1/2(T (q))−1/2Σ1/2
− Σ1/2(T (q))−1/2Σ1/2q
be the bundle size price for the equivalent BSP. Then find ( z, d) ∈ P such that ps = zs − ds
for all s ∈ S.
It is important to note that the although the algorithm in Li et al. (2021) can be applied, it
doesn’t imply that BSP and CPBSD with constant markups achieve the same profit. Indeed, in
Section 4, we have shown that CPBSD with constant markups can achieve the asymptotically
optimal profit when the costs of the products are not identical. This is not possible under BSP.
Therefore, the transformation provided in this section provides a computational rather than a
theoretical framework.

56
Appendix E: Additional Results for Numerical Experiments of Section 6
E.1. Additional Figures and Tables
In Section 6, we have reported the profit comparisons for N = 5 and N = 30. In this section, we
report the results for N = 10 in Figure E-1 and Table E-2.
CP PB PBDC BCB CPBSD-A
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0 Mean
Median
BSP
In-sample
Out-of-sample
(a) all schemes N = 10
exponential logit  lognormal    normaluniform
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0 (b) CPBSD-A by distribution N = 10
zero positive negative
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0 (c) CPBSD-A by correlation N = 10
Notes. Figure E-1(a) reports the performance of all schemes over 675 instances of N = 10. Figure E-1(b) reports
CPBSD-A across 5 distribution types (135 instances for each type). Figure E-1(c) reportsCPBSD-A across 3 correlation
structures (225 instances for each structure). Each box plot displays the in-sample (light bar) and out-of-sample (dark
bar) profits relative to BSP with the mean (dashed line), median (solid line), 2.5%, 25%, 75%, and 97.5% quantiles.
Figure E-1 Profit comparisons of bundling mechanisms relative to BSP for N = 10
Table E-2 Categorized profit comparisons of bundling mechanisms relative to BSP for N = 10
category median of relative profit performance
cost heterogeneity CP PB BSP max{CP, BSP} PBDC CPBSD-A
zero cost none in-s 0.71 0.99 1.00 1.00 0.99 1.00
out-s 0.71 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
partial in-s 0.86 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
out-s 0.87 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
full in-s 0.88 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
out-s 0.88 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
positive cost none in-s 0.79 0.68 1.00 1.00 0.92 1.00
HVHM out-s 0.75 0.70 1.00 1.00 0.97 1.00
partial in-s 0.90 0.84 1.00 1.00 0.98 1.04
out-s 0.88 0.85 1.00 1.00 1.01 1.03
full in-s 0.96 0.87 1.00 1.00 1.01 1.10
out-s 0.97 0.92 1.00 1.00 1.15 1.16
positive cost none in-s 1.02 0.62 1.00 1.02 1.14 1.25
HVLM out-s 1.07 0.64 1.00 1.07 1.23 1.37
partial in-s 1.24 0.67 1.00 1.24 1.37 1.44
out-s 1.30 0.73 1.00 1.30 1.56 1.64
full in-s 1.46 0.97 1.00 1.46 1.66 1.74
out-s 1.49 1.01 1.00 1.49 1.79 1.86
Notes. The 675 instances of N = 10 are divided evenly into 9 categories according to the scenario of production
cost/potential surplus and the degree of valuation. We report the median profit for in-sample (in-s) and out-of-sample
(out-s) tests over the 75 instances for each category.

57
Figures E-2 reports the categorized box-plot profit comparison for N = 5. (The medians are
reported in Table 3 of Section 6.)
CP PB PBDC BCBCPBSD     CPBSD-A     MB
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75Zero Cost
None Heterogeneity
Mean
Median
BSP
In-sample
Out-of-sample
CP PB PBDC BCBCPBSD     CPBSD-A     MB
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75
Partial Heterogeneity
CP PB PBDC BCBCPBSD     CPBSD-A     MB
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75
Full Heterogeneity
CP PB PBDC BCBCPBSD     CPBSD-A     MB
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75Positive Cost with HVHM
CP PB PBDC BCBCPBSD     CPBSD-A     MB
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75
CP PB PBDC BCBCPBSD     CPBSD-A     MB
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75
CP PB PBDC BCBCPBSD     CPBSD-A     MB
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
Positive Cost with HVLM
CP PB PBDC BCBCPBSD     CPBSD-A     MB
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
CP PB PBDC BCBCPBSD     CPBSD-A     MB
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
Notes. The 675 instances of N = 5 are divided evenly into 9 categories according to the scenario of production
cost/potential surplus and the degree of valuation heterogeneity. Each box plot displays the in-sample and out-of-
sample profits relative to BSP over 75 instances of the category. “HVHM” and “HVLM” are abbreviations for “high
value high margin” and “high value low margin”, respectively.
Figure E-2 Categorized profit comparisons of bundling mechanisms relative to BSP for N = 5

58
Figures E-3 reports the categorized box-plot profit comparison for N = 10. (The medians are
reported in Table E-2.)
CP PB PBDC BCB CPBSD-A
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75Zero Cost
None Heterogeneity
Mean
Median
BSP
In-sample
Out-of-sample
CP PB PBDC BCB CPBSD-A
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75
Partial Heterogeneity
CP PB PBDC BCB CPBSD-A
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75
Full Heterogeneity
CP PB PBDC BCB CPBSD-A
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75Positive Cost with HVHM
CP PB PBDC BCB CPBSD-A
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75
CP PB PBDC BCB CPBSD-A
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75
CP PB PBDC BCB CPBSD-A
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
Positive Cost with HVLM
CP PB PBDC BCB CPBSD-A
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
CP PB PBDC BCB CPBSD-A
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
Notes. The 675 instances of N = 10 are divided evenly into 9 categories according to the scenario of production
cost/potential surplus and the degree of valuation heterogeneity. Each box plot displays the in-sample and out-of-
sample profits relative to BSP over 75 instances of the category. “HVHM” and “HVLM” are abbreviations for “high
value high margin” and “high value low margin”, respectively.
Figure E-3 Categorized profit comparisons of bundling mechanisms relative to BSP for N = 10

59
Figures E-4 reports the categorized box-plot profit comparison for N = 30. (The medians are
reported in Table 4 of Section 6.)
CP PB PBDC BCB CPBSD-A
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75Zero Cost
None Heterogeneity
Mean
Median
BSP
In-sample
Out-of-sample
CP PB PBDC BCB CPBSD-A
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75
Partial Heterogeneity
CP PB PBDC BCB CPBSD-A
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75
Full Heterogeneity
CP PB PBDC BCB CPBSD-A
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75Positive Cost with HVHM
CP PB PBDC BCB CPBSD-A
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75
CP PB PBDC BCB CPBSD-A
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75
CP PB PBDC BCB CPBSD-A
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
Positive Cost with HVLM
CP PB PBDC BCB CPBSD-A
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
CP PB PBDC BCB CPBSD-A
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
Notes. The 675 instances of N = 30 are divided evenly into 9 categories according to the scenario of production
cost/potential surplus and the degree of valuation heterogeneity. Each box plot displays the in-sample and out-of-
sample profits relative to BSP over 75 instances of the category. “HVHM” and “HVLM” are abbreviations for “high
value high margin” and “high value low margin”, respectively.
Figure E-4 Categorized profit comparisons of bundling mechanisms relative to BSP for N = 30

60
Figures E-5 reports the categorized box-plot profit comparison for asymptotic performance. (The
medians are reported in Table 5 of Section 6.)
100 300 1000
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0Zero Cost
None Heterogeneity
Mean
Median
PPD
PB
BSP
CPBSD
100 300 1000
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Partial Heterogeneity
100 300 1000
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Full Heterogeneity
100 300 1000
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0Positive Cost with HVHM
100 300 1000
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
100 300 1000
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
100 300 1000
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0Positive Cost with HVLM
100 300 1000
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
100 300 1000
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Notes. Comparisons are across the number of products N along the horizontal axis. For each N ∈ {100, 300, 1000},
the 450 instances of zero and negative correlation are divided evenly into 9 categories according to the scenario of
production cost/potential surplus and the degree of valuation heterogeneity. Each box plot displays the profits relative
to PPD over 50 instances in the category. “HVHM” and “HVLM” are abbreviations for “high value high margin”
and “high value low margin”, respectively.
Figure E-5 Categorized profit comparisons of bundling mechanisms relative to PPD in large-scale problems

61
E.2. Assorted and Clustered Bundle-Size Pricing
Abdallah et al. (2021) propose two variants of BSP that can help improve its efficiency when
production costs are heterogeneous.
Assorted Bundle-Size Pricing. In assorted BSP, the firm only allows customers to purchase
from a prespecified subset of its products, and hence avoids selling high-cost products at a relatively
low average price in a bundle. We note that CPBSD subsumes assorted BSP by setting sufficiently
high component prices on certain products and thus effectively removing them from the menu.
Clustered Bundle-Size Pricing. In clustered BSP, the firm clusters products with equal
production costs and applies BSP to each cluster separately. Notes that clustered BSP degenerates
to CP when production costs are highly heterogeneous, e.g., each product has a different cost.
Table E-3 Categorized profit comparisons of bundling mechanisms relative to BSP for N = 5
category median of relative profit performance
cost heterogeneity BSP Assorted BSP lustered BSP CPBSD CPBSD-A MB
positive cost partial in-s 1.00 1.00 1.02 1.08 1.02 1.16
HVHM out-s 1.00 1.00 1.02 1.01 1.04 1.00
full in-s 1.00 1.00 — 1.14 1.06 1.21
out-s 1.00 1.00 — 1.07 1.10 1.05
positive cost partial in-s 1.00 1.00 1.09 1.63 1.48 1.67
HVLM out-s 1.00 1.00 1.10 1.56 1.62 1.61
full in-s 1.00 1.32 — 1.96 1.81 2.04
out-s 1.00 1.33 — 1.81 1.83 1.74
Notes. This table is derived from Table 3. Two new columns of “Assorted BSP” and “Clustered BSP” are added, and
columns of CP, PB, and PBDC are omitted for simplicity. Clustered BSP degenerates to CP under full heterogeneity
and hence is not displayed. “HVHM” and “HVLM” are abbreviations for “high value high margin” and “high value
low margin”, respectively.
Following the experiments in Section 6, we evaluate assorted BSP and clustered BSP in problem
instances with positive and heterogeneous cost, and we report the categorized profit comparisons in
Table E-3. We find that assortedBSP improves the profitability of BSP by approximately 1/3 in the
category of HVLM and full heterogeneity (the last category in Table E-3). Under this circumstance,
assorted BSP can remove products of high costs and low potential surplus from the assortment
offered. In other categories, assorted BSP performs almost identically to BSP since the best sales
menu is to offer all products in most instances. This observation is similar to the empirical finding
of Abdallah et al. (2021) that assorted BSP reduces to BSP when production costs are not very
high. Clustered BSP improves BSP by a few percentages in the category of partial heterogeneity,
where there are two types of products. It degenerates to CP under full heterogeneity. Note that
both CPBSD and its approximation CPBSD-A outperform assorted BSP and Clustered BSP in all
categories.

62
Appendix F: Additional Numerical Experiments
Ma and Simchi-Levi (2021) designed experiments using randomized parameters and hence has the
advantage of not depending on the fixed parameters (e.g., our specification in Table 2 of Section 6).
For a consistent and comprehensive comparison, in this section, we report the results of repeating
their numerical experiments and adding CPBSD to be evaluated.
For readers’ convenience, we restate the experiment setting of Ma and Simchi-Levi (2021) (the
contents below are cited from their section 4.1). They use 5 families of parametric distributions, e.g.,
exponential, logit, lognormal, normal, and uniform, and assume that valuations are independent
across products. The ranges of parameters for these distributions are outlined in Table F-4.
Table F-4 Ranges of parameters from Ma and Simchi-Levi (2021)
description of marginal distribution of Vn
exponential an exponential distribution with mean chosen uniformly from [0.2, 2].
logit a gumble distribution with scale σ = 0.25 and means chosen uniformly from [0, 2.5],
and thus the location µ is in [ −0.25γ, 2.5 − 0.25γ] ≈ [−0.14, 2.36].
lognormal a lognormal distribution with log-variance σ2 = 0.25 and log-mean chosen uniformly from [-1.5, 1],
and thus the original valuation has mean in [ e−1.5+0.125, e1+0.125] ≈ [0.25, 3.08].
normal a normal distribution with mean chosen uniformly from [ −1, 2.5]
and variances chosen uniformly from [0 .25, 1.75].
uniform an uniform distribution in [0 , b], where b is chosen uniformly from [0.4, 4],
and thus the mean is in [0.2, 2].
They consider three scenarios for production costs:
1. Heterogeneous Items: in this scenario, valuation distributions fluctuate in accordance to Table
F-4. The cost of each item is set to 0.2, except in the case of uniform distributions, where it is
set to half the item’s mean valuation. These are the same numbers used in Chu et al. (2011).
2. Heterogeneous Costs: in this scenario, valuation distributions are identical while costs fluctu-
ate. In the cases of the exponential, logit, lognormal, or normal distributions, the valuation
is fixed to have mean 1 .25, 1 .5, e0.5+0.125 ≈ 1.87, or 1 .5 (with fixed variance 1) respectively;
the costs are chosen uniformly from [0 , 2.5], approximately the same range as the means. In
the case of the uniform distribution, the costs are chosen uniformly from 0 to 0 .75 times the
maximum valuation b drawn according to Table F-4.
3. Heterogeneous Items and Costs : in this scenario, both valuation distributions and costs fluc-
tuate (independently) as described in the preceding scenarios.
We consider N = 5 products. For each combination of the 3 cost scenarios and 5 demand distri-
butions, we randomly generate 200 instances, resulting in 3,000 total instances. For each instance,

63
we evaluate bundling mechanisms using approaches described in Section 6.1, and normalize the
profit performance of each mechanism relative to BSP. In Table F-5, we report the median profit
performance of every mechanism across the 200 instances of each distribution family.
Table F-5 Profit comparisons of bundling mechanisms relative to BSP
category median of relative profit performance
cost scenario heterogeneity CP PB BSP max{CP, BSP} PBDC CPBSD CPBSD-A MB
1 exponential in-s 0.83 0.93 1.00 1.00 0.97 1.05 1.00 1.12
out-s 0.78 0.98 1.00 1.00 1.01 0.99 1.00 0.95
logit in-s 0.86 0.96 1.00 1.00 0.99 1.01 1.00 1.01
out-s 0.86 0.99 1.00 1.00 1.01 0.99 1.00 0.97
lognormal in-s 0.78 0.99 1.00 1.00 0.99 1.03 1.00 1.04
out-s 0.76 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.01 0.98 1.00 0.97
normal in-s 0.87 0.84 1.00 1.00 0.94 1.05 1.00 1.09
out-s 0.87 0.89 1.00 1.00 0.99 0.98 1.00 0.96
uniform in-s 0.95 0.84 1.00 1.00 0.97 1.14 1.05 1.23
out-s 0.98 0.90 1.00 1.00 1.04 1.08 1.06 1.05
2 exponential in-s 1.01 0.46 1.00 1.01 1.00 1.21 1.10 1.31
out-s 0.96 0.48 1.00 1.00 1.17 1.07 1.15 1.04
logit in-s 1.39 0.77 1.00 1.39 1.52 1.63 1.60 1.66
out-s 1.69 0.90 1.00 1.69 1.98 1.94 1.94 1.89
lognormal in-s 0.94 0.80 1.00 1.00 1.07 1.20 1.15 1.26
out-s 0.93 0.87 1.00 1.00 1.19 1.13 1.16 1.08
normal in-s 0.97 0.54 1.00 1.00 1.03 1.19 1.12 1.29
out-s 1.00 0.58 1.00 1.00 1.13 1.12 1.16 1.06
uniform in-s 0.93 0.55 1.00 1.00 0.95 1.10 1.05 1.21
out-s 0.95 0.57 1.00 1.00 1.04 1.05 1.06 0.99
3 exponential in-s 1.06 0.37 1.00 1.06 1.02 1.22 1.09 1.31
out-s 1.03 0.36 1.00 1.03 1.18 1.10 1.14 1.06
logit in-s 1.07 0.15 1.00 1.07 1.14 1.22 1.18 1.22
out-s 1.12 0.16 1.00 1.12 1.21 1.15 1.20 1.15
lognormal in-s 1.09 0.25 1.00 1.09 1.09 1.26 1.15 1.28
out-s 1.14 0.18 1.00 1.14 1.28 1.16 1.22 1.20
normal in-s 1.03 0.15 1.00 1.03 1.02 1.18 1.10 1.22
out-s 1.07 0.13 1.00 1.07 1.16 1.08 1.17 1.07
uniform in-s 1.09 0.68 1.00 1.09 1.09 1.29 1.18 1.37
out-s 1.19 0.75 1.00 1.19 1.23 1.26 1.22 1.23
Notes. We report the median profit for in-sample (in-s) and out-of-sample (out-s) tests relative to BSP over the 200
instances for each category.
Scenario 1 shares the same experimental setting as Chu et al. (2011) which choose identical
production costs. In this scenario, we replicate their finding that BSP is within a few percent of
the optimal pricing scheme MB. While there is minimal room for improvement under Scenario 1,
we see CPBSD can still increase the in-sample profitability and thus reduce the gap to MB.

64
Scenarios 2 and 3 allow costs to vary randomly among products. They are similar to our exper-
iment on heterogeneous production costs. In these two scenarios, we replicate the finding of Ma
and Simchi-Levi (2021) that PBDC achieves higher profits than BSP, and we also find that CPBSD
outperform BSP substantially. We note that CPBSD outperforms PBDC in the in-sample data and
performs comparably in the out-of-sample data. These observations are consistent with our findings
from the main experiments of Section 6.
Appendix G: Discussion on Non-additive Valuations
In this section, we provide a brief discussion on non-additive valuations underCPBSD, including the
asymptotic analysis and MILP formulation. Non-additive valuations are used to model complemen-
tarity/substitutability among the products. Although not modeled in our framework, one general
approach to incorporating complementarity/substitutability in an additive utility framework is to
introduce an interaction term when a pair of products are purchased together. Specifically, the
valuation of a bundle S is X
n∈S
Vn +
X
i,j∈S, i ̸=j
αij,
where αij represents the additional utility if products i and j are purchased together. Clearly,
products i and j are complementary if αij > 0 and otherwise substitutable if αij < 0.
Regarding the asymptotic optimality, it is in general difficult to derive theories if αij’s are het-
erogeneous due to complex product interactions. However, for the special case where αij ≡ α for
all i and j, it is possible to obtain similar theoretical results. The main reason is that, under this
special case, the valuation of a bundle of size s increases by αs(s − 1)/2, which does not depend
on the bundle’s composition. As a result, the main technical lemma (Lemma 3), which establishes
the deterministic behavior of customer surplus, remains unaffected. Therefore, it is still optimal
to offer a single bundle size in this case. Compared to the additive case, the optimal bundle size
decreases if α < 0 (substitutability) and increases if α > 0 (complementarity).
For the MILP formulation, this valuation model can be expressed as
X
n∈S
Vn +
X
i,j∈S, i ̸=j
αijxixj,
where xi’s are binary variables indicating whether the customer buys the corresponding product.
The nonlinear term xixj, which captures products i and j being purchased together, can be easily
linearized by introducing ψij and applying the following linear constraints:
ψij ∈ {0, 1}, ψ ij ≤ xi, ψ ij ≤ xj, ψ ij ≥ xi + xj − 1.
Therefore, the ( CPBSD-MILP) formulation developed in Section 5 can be readily extended to
accommodate this more general case.